Skip to main content Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Sign in Search jobs Search UK edition UK edition US edition Australia edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More Show More News View all News UK news World news Climate crisis Newsletters Football Coronavirus Business Environment UK politics Education Society Science Tech Global development Obituaries Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Cartoons Opinion videos Letters Sport View all Sport Football Cricket Rugby union Tennis Cycling F1 Golf Boxing Rugby league Racing US sports Culture View all Culture Film Music TV & radio Books Art & design Stage Games Classical Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Travel Health & fitness Women Men Love & sex Beauty Home & garden Money Cars Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions UK edition US edition Australia edition International edition Search jobs Hire with Guardian Jobs Holidays Live events Masterclasses Digital Archive Guardian Print Shop Patrons Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Today's paper Inside the Guardian The Observer Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Hire with Guardian Jobs Holidays Live events Masterclasses Digital Archive Guardian Print Shop Patrons Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing Environment Climate crisis Wildlife Energy Pollution An RWE windfarm off the coast of north Wales. Photograph: Ben Birchall/PA An RWE windfarm off the coast of north Wales. Photograph: Ben Birchall/PA Monarchy This article is more than 4 months old King Charles redirects £1bn windfarm profits towards ‘public good’ This article is more than 4 months old Energy agreements have generated windfall that would normally go towards monarchy From the archive: How the monarchy came to own the seabed around Britain Alex Lawson and agencies Thu 19 Jan 2023 00.01 GMT Last modified on Thu 19 Jan 2023 18.02 GMT King Charles has asked for profits from a £1bn-a-year crown estate windfarm deal to be used for the “wider public good” rather than as extra funding for the monarchy. Under the taxpayer-funded sovereign grant, which is now £86.3m a year, the king receives 25% of the crown estate’s annual surplus, which includes an extra 10% for the refurbishment of Buckingham Palace. Six new offshore wind energy lease agreements, announced by the crown estate on Thursday, have generated a major windfall for the estate, which would usually lead to a jump in the monarchy’s official funding. How the Queen came to own the seabed around Britain Read more The monarch’s right to collect royalties from wind and wave power was granted by Tony Blair’s Labour government in a 2004 act of parliament. The approach is in contrast to the job of setting royalties and assigning drilling rights for oil and gas, which rests with the government. But the king, who highlighted the cost of living crisis in his Christmas message, has requested that the extra funds “be directed for wider public good”, instead of to the sovereign grant, at a time when many are facing financial hardship. It is not clear as to the exact amount of taxpayer funding the king has passed up, but it is likely to be many millions. The crown estate has signed leases for six more offshore wind projects The crown estate – an ancient portfolio of land and property – belongs to the reigning monarch “in right of the crown” but it is not their private property. Profits for the crown estate jumped by £43.4m to £312.7m in the year to the end of March, with the value of its seabed portfolio swelling to £5bn. The portfolio also includes chunks of central London – the monarch is one of the largest property owners in the West End, including St James’s and Regent Street – as well as farmland, offices and retail parks from Southampton to Newcastle. . The crown estate is also responsible for managing the Windsor estate, which spans nearly 16,000 acres (6,500 hectares) and includes parkland and ancient woodland, as well as the Ascot racecourse. The total value of the crown estate’s properties was estimated at £15.6bn in the most recent annual accounts. The monarch surrenders the revenue from the estate – more than £312m a year – to the Treasury each year for the benefit of the nation’s finances, in exchange for the sovereign grant. The king’s keeper of the privy purse, Sir Michael Stevens, who manages the royal household’s finances, has contacted the prime minister, Rishi Sunak, and the chancellor, Jeremy Hunt – his fellow royal trustees – to ask for “an appropriate reduction” in the percentage of crown estate profits used for the sovereign grant. A Buckingham Palace spokesperson said: “In view of the offshore energy windfall, the keeper of the privy purse has written to the prime minister and the chancellor to share the king’s wish that this windfall be directed for wider public good, rather than to the sovereign grant, through an appropriate reduction in the proportion of crown estate surplus that funds the sovereign grant.” skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to Business Today Free daily newsletter Get set for the working day – we'll point you to all the business news and analysis you need every morning Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion The sovereign grant is based on funds two years in arrears, so any boost in crown estate profits and new percentage arrangements would not affect the grant until 2024-2025. The sovereign grant covers the running costs of the royal household and events such as official receptions, investitures and garden parties. The percentage increased from 15% to 25% in 2017 to cover the cost of a 10-year programme of £369m’s worth of repairs at the palace. The grant goes up if crown estate profits increase, but it does not fall when they decrease. The crown estate confirmed on Thursday it had signed lease agreements for six offshore wind projects that have the potential to power more than 7m homes. Three of the six projects are located off the north Wales, Cumbria and Lancashire coast, and three are located in the North Sea off the Yorkshire and Lincolnshire coast. Together they will pay about £1bn to the crown estate every year. The successful bidders, which were announced last year , included Germany’s RWE Renewables, which won two licences at Dogger Bank, off the Yorkshire coast, and two from a consortium that includes the oil company BP. The sovereign and the wider royal family have three main sources of income – the crown estate, the Duchy of Lancaster and the Duchy of Cornwall, with combined assets of more than £17bn. Topics Monarchy King Charles III Wind power Renewable energy UK cost of living crisis Energy Real estate news Reuse this content More on this story More on this story The baccarat scandal: the last time a senior royal was questioned in court 2 Jun 2023 King Charles to give up home in Wales on edge of Bannau Brycheiniog 3 Jun 2023 European countries pledge huge expansion of North Sea wind farms 24 Apr 2023 King Charles: 71 facts about his long road to the throne 1 May 2023 World’s deepest offshore wind turbine installed off Scottish coast 11 Apr 2023 Elizabeth I heavily influenced by loss of mother Anne Boleyn at young age 26 May 2023 Scotland to earn £260m from floating windfarms powering North Sea rigs 24 Mar 2023 Buckingham Palace declines to return remains of ‘stolen’ Ethiopian prince, say reports 23 May 2023 Man who threw eggs at King Charles found guilty of threatening behaviour 14 Apr 2023 Duchess’s police motorcycle escort hits elderly woman in London 11 May 2023 Most viewed Most viewed Environment Climate crisis Wildlife Energy Pollution News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Modern Slavery Act Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Patrons Back to top © 2023 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)