Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 38 1 38 1 St. Marys Road, Harborne, Birmingham, B17 See map Guide Price £2,500,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Reduced on 10/05/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×7 BATHROOMS ×7 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features 7 bedrooms 5 reception rooms 7 bathrooms Period Detached Double Garage Garden Town/City Cellar Home office Property description Approached directly from St. Marys Road this handsome and imposing Victorian family home sits behind a low-level red brick wall. The in-and-out drive provides ample parking for multiple vehicles and access to the garage and home office above. The property is beautifully appointed throughout and cleverly updated to retain all of its character and charm whilst feeling modern and contemporary in style. Set under an attractive open-sided storm porch the front door opens to a vestibule with a large internal door opening to the magnificent octagon-shaped reception hallway. The impressive new but original Minton tile floor is stunning and adds interest and colour to the space. The eye is drawn upward to the high ceiling and lovely plasterwork detail. Doors radiate to all of the principal reception rooms and a staircase rises to the first floor landing area. There is also a useful guest cloakroom/WC and stairs down to the cellar. The drawing room sits at the front of the house and is elegant and inviting. The solid Oak wooden floor provides a depth of warmth and a large walk-in bay window with wooden shutters floods the space with natural light. The open fireplace creates a further focal point with a lovely light marble surround. The sitting room also located at the front of the house is currently used as a study. There is a lovely box bay window providing ample light and a lovely open fireplace again with a pale marble surround. The large kitchen is well-fitted with a comprehensive range of floor mounted units with dark granite work surfaces over. A superb central island unit provides further storage and preparation space with a breakfast bar to one end, perfect for informal dining. There is a separate utility/laundry room next door with space for the larger appliances. Light and bright, this superb space flows through to the dining room. The high ceiling provides a real sense of space. Flooded with natural light the window and French doors lead out to the rear patio terrace and provide lovely views of the garden. Double doors flow through to the wonderful family room. The family room is a lovely comfortable space. In keeping with the rest of the house but with a cosy elegance. Light floods in through the French doors and window with lovely views over the rear gardens. This is a perfect room for relaxation. A large walk-in store room from the reception hallway, opposite the utility/laundry room, completes the downstairs accommodation. The turning staircase rises to the first floor and at the half-landing, there is a unique window set in to the triangle projection to the side of the house. Two windows come together forming a glass corner, a really lovely feature. The first floor landing provides access to four of the six double bedrooms and a large family bathroom. The principal bedroom sits at the front of the house. Elegantly appointed this large bedroom is a relaxing space. The en suite shower room is very well-appointed and has the benefit of a double shower enclosure. A separate entrance to the side of the property grants access to the self-contained annexe suite. This space would be perfect for independent elderly relatives or teenage siblings and is as well-appointed as the main house. Double doors open from the driveway to the garage. There is a door to the side of the building opening to the staircase that rises to the home office/ study. A light bright dual aspect space would serve equally well as a gym or home studio. Sitting to the rear of the garage there is a good size garden store and a gardeners' WC. The garden is a private and tranquil space. Part walled with mature planted borders providing year-round colour, interest and privacy. There is a lovely large patio terrace next to the house perfect for summertime entertaining. **For a full property description, please refer to the brochure** Central Birmingham 4.4 miles, M5 (J3) 4 miles, Birmingham Airport/NEC 13 miles (all distances are approximate) Only a short walk to the popular Harborne Village with amenities including Waitrose, Marks and Spencer, Lordswood Gym, and a variety of highly thought of shops, bars and restaurants. Situated within easy reach of all Birmingham Hospitals and Universities. Birmingham University Campus and the Queen Elizabeth Hospital are within walking distance. The surrounding area offers excellent state and independent schools for all ages including Harborne Primary and Blue Coat schools. Recreational facilities of particular note include Edgbaston and Harborne Golf Clubs, Edgbaston Priory Lawn Tennis and Squash Club, a Sailing Club at Edgbaston Reservoir, the Warwickshire County Cricket Ground, Edgbaston Botanical Gardens and Archery Club. University railway station is a short walk from the house and connects directly to national services from Birmingham New Street. Trains run from Birmingham New Street to London in just over an hour and a half. Brochures More Details Brochure 3 St. Marys Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. Energy performance c Generated EPC Graph. Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: G St. Marys Road, Harborne, Birmingham, B17 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode University Station 0.7 miles Selly Oak Station 1.2 miles Five Ways Station 1.8 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Knight Frank, Birmingham 18th Floor 103 Colmore Row Birmingham B3 3AG About us We are passionate about property. Our foundations are built on supporting clients in one of the most significant decisions they'll make in their lifetime. As your partners in property, we act with integrity and are here to help you achieve the very best price for your home in the quickest possible time. We offer a range of services for your property requirements. If you are selling, buying or letting a home, or you need some frank advice and insight on the current property Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Knight Frank, Birmingham 18th Floor 103 Colmore Row Birmingham B3 3AG More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 387 6426 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference BRM012217694. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Knight Frank, Birmingham . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 387 6426 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho