CREDIT/DEBIT CARDS 1-800-297-9783 Each reader is priced individually; see individual readers profiles for full details, prices start from $1.25/min. 18+ Only. Live calls recorded. For entertainment purposes only. Promotional messages may be sent. For help and marketing opt out call 1-800-297-9784 Phone Readers All Tarot Psychics Clairvoyants Mediums Angel Cards Spirit Coach Runes Astrology Email Readers All Tarot Psychics Clairvoyants Mediums Angel Cards Spirit Coach Runes Astrology Chat Readers All Tarot Psychics Clairvoyants Mediums Angel Cards Spirit Coach Runes Astrology Cam Readers Horoscopes Global Forecast Aries ♈ Taurus ♉ Gemini ♊ Cancer ♋ Leo ♌ Virgo ♍ Libra ♎ Scorpio ♏ Sagittarius ♐ Capricorn ♑ Aquarius ♒ Pisces ♓ Blogs Purple Hearts Search Close Menu Phone Readers Email Readers Chat Readers Cam Readers Horoscopes Blogs Purple Hearts About Contact Us Help and FAQs Terms Privacy New Reader Registration Your country: Connect with us on: Purple Hearts Club Welcome Call Options Intro Offers Welcome Welcome to Ask The Answer, your spiritual family. We’ve worked hard to bring you over 400 gifted psychics, so you can find the answers you need, 24/7. Whether you’re looking for insight, guidance or comfort, you can be sure to find what you’re looking for, all just a phone call away. When you’ve found a reader you like, make a note of their PIN number and click the “Call Me button” for their rates and call options. Enjoy your reading! CREDIT/DEBIT CARDS 1-800-297-9783 Each reader is priced individually; see individual readers profiles for full details, prices start from $1.25/min. 18+ Only. Live calls recorded. For entertainment purposes only. Promotional messages may be sent. For help and marketing opt out call 1-800-297-9784 Purple Hearts Introductory Offer Introductory Offer Register Register Phone Readers (Psychic) In Consultation Ellen Alexandria PIN: 500444 710 Ratings I am an Internationally Renowned British TV psychic, a professional Psychic Medium, Channel and Spiritual Healer. For more than 35 years, I have helped people along their spiritual journeys and during... My Profile Queue Me On Until 17:00 (EST) Justin Toper PIN: 500900 1260 Ratings I am recognised as one of the world's foremost Astrologers, Psychics and Spiritual healers. I was described by Piers Morgan as 'The best in the galaxy' on www.guardian.co.uk. I had a column that appea... My Profile Call Me In Consultation Ambriel PIN: 700016 361 Ratings I don’t use any “tools” to bring you the clarity and answers you need I work with Spirit world, Angelic Realm and energies from you and those you may be asking about plus add a sprinkle of the “5 “Cla... My Profile Queue Me On Until 06:00 (EST) Rosie-Lee PIN: 500488 5389 Ratings I can guide you with my Tarot cards linking into my spiritual ability, I have been Psychic most of my life, so let me help you with either going down the right path in life, your love life, career opp... My Profile Call Me In Consultation Maggie PIN: 500194 969 Ratings Being the direct descendant of a famous Scottish witch, I’m a spaewife who possesses the knowledge and power to help you navigate whatever life throws at you. My namesake paid the ultimate price for u... My Profile Alert Me On Until 07:00 (EST) Melissa PIN: 500077 866 Ratings My spiritual abilities include clairvoyance, clairaudience and claircognizance. I am highly intuitive and empathetic and have used my abilities in and off until learning how to use them properly aroun... My Profile Call Me On Until 08:00 (EST) Jill PIN: 500731 776 Ratings I’d love to help you find your best way forward. I gave my first professional tarot reading in 1979, and continue to develop my knowledge and skills. I’m an empath, clairsentient and claircognisant, a... My Profile Call Me In Consultation Katt PIN: 500109 935 Ratings Welcome to my world of Tarot, I have over 30 years experience working intuitively with my Angel, Tarot and Guidance cards. I specialise in relationship, career and home life situations. I’m friendly a... My Profile Queue Me On Until 07:00 (EST) Rosamund PIN: 700064 40 Ratings I am a clairaudient and medium. I often use Tarot to give an insightful card reading. I am in touch with spirit guides. I can help guide you in the right direction concerning love, career, and prospe... My Profile Call Me On Until 08:00 (EST) Juliette PIN: 500812 90 Ratings I offer Psychic Mediumship using Angel cards, Oracle Cards and also connect to the Akashic records. I also teach with my guides to help you on your path, I have been connected to Spirit for 37 years a... My Profile Call Me On Until 07:00 (EST) Cindee PIN: 700013 231 Ratings I'm fast and straightforward in a very compassionate way and always deliver truth, honesty and integrity. I have a unique approach; It takes me seconds to tune in, gain a connection and then we just f... My Profile Call Me On Until 13:00 (EST) Ann Frances PIN: 600553 2669 Ratings You can ask questions about your path in life as well as your relationships with those around you. I am here to help you understand your current situation by connecting to Spirit in order to gain insi... My Profile Call Me On Until 06:32 (EST) Stevie F PIN: 500968 2237 Ratings My main attributes are mediumship, channelling, energy work, symbology, dream analysis, past life regressions and general spiritual guidance. During a reading I try and make the reading as interactive... My Profile Call Me On Until 08:00 (EST) Dan PIN: 700084 0 Ratings I am an open and non judgemental person who can help guide you with Tarot cards in my readings. I have been working with Tarot for 8 years now, I can focus on a general reading, a question you might h... My Profile Call Me In Consultation Jo-anne PIN: 600399 1116 Ratings Please feel free to contact me for a psychic one to one session. My speciality is Mediumship and I have helped many people over the last 25 years with my gift and have brought so much comfort and clos... My Profile Alert Me In Consultation Dana PIN: 500782 608 Ratings I have clairvoyance, clairaudience and clairsentience. I also use Tarot cards as well. I have been psychic for as long as I can remember then picked up Tarot over 25 years ago. I work by feeling and s... My Profile Alert Me In Consultation Shelly PIN: 600333 4161 Ratings I have been reading as a psychic, clairvoyant medium for over 14 years professionally, including filming; book projects; corporate events; platform events, charitable events. Many fellow readers come ... My Profile Alert Me On Until 06:29 (EST) Alanna PIN: 500270 493 Ratings I am a natural empath with clairvoyant, clairsentient and psychic gifts. As a child I could see and feel things far beyond what people and life presented physically, this caused me distress until as a... My Profile Call Me On Until 06:11 (EST) Linda H PIN: 500438 3624 Ratings My specialty is relationship astrology with an emphasis on Twin Flame relationships. With only your day-month-year, we'll take an in-depth look at the past, the present and the future for you and any ... My Profile Call Me In Consultation Alma PIN: 600057 1006 Ratings I am an intuitive empath, Medium, Tarot and Crystal ball reader. Psychic information, healing and visions flow to me directly from spirit. I can read the energy of others in relation to their thoughts... My Profile Alert Me On Until 06:20 (EST) Sapphire PIN: 500436 2455 Ratings I am an international clairvoyant clairsentient reader, giving readings worldwide, blog radio, with many international clients. The vibration of life comes in different forms and I hold a keen interes... My Profile Call Me On Until 05:55 (EST) Laura PIN: 700046 51 Ratings I'm an intuitive Tarot Reader. I can use my Tarot cards to provide guidance and insight into the way your life is heading. Whether you're calling about life in general or have a specific question, my ... My Profile Call Me On Until 06:31 (EST) Kwin PIN: 500160 127 Ratings I had a very special gift from a very young age, but being a Sikh girl my mum didn't know how to let me use my Psychic gift. I lost my mum 26 years ago. I then went to see a Clairvoyant, where I was t... My Profile Call Me In Consultation Melody J PIN: 600603 3418 Ratings I’ve been helping people for many years giving guidance and answers to questions they need answering, I’ve been a Tarot reader for many years and totally enjoy the work I do, please feel free to give ... My Profile Queue Me In Consultation Destiny Doctor PIN: 500590 3920 Ratings I’m Anna aka “The Destiny Doctor” an intuitive psychic agony aunt, previously with Vision Magazine. I am an international Clairvoyant and Psychic Medium, Soul Mentor, Reiki Master/Teacher, Metaphysica... My Profile Queue Me Due: Today @ 06:00 (EST) Les PIN: 600810 1569 Ratings I'm a Clairvoyant and empath, a Tarot card, Angel card, Unicorn card and Rune stones reader and a Paranormal Investigator. I have appeared on both TV and Radio. I've appeared on French TV in a paranor... My Profile Alert Me Due: Today @ 06:00 (EST) Tracy P PIN: 600725 1643 Ratings I am a British TV and Radio psychic. I’m a natural clairvoyant medium and have over 35 years experience working with spirit worldwide, plus I have been on TV and radio. As I work direct from spirit I ... My Profile Alert Me Due: Today @ 06:00 (EST) Mari PIN: 500331 141 Ratings I have been a Tarot reader both nationally and internationally for 28 years. Using Tarot as a tool my clairvoyant, intuitive readings can help prepare you for the future as well as helping you gain in... My Profile Alert Me Prev 1 2 3 ... Next # or CREDITS CALL BACK If you'd rather we call you, click on the Call Back button below, follow the instructions and we'll call you back straight away. Call Back 18+ Only. Live calls recorded. For entertainment purposes only. Promotional messages may be sent. For help and marketing opt out call 1-800-297-9784. Phone Number Please enter a valid telephone number (Your Phone Number needs to be in local format excluding the international dialing code e.g. 7021234567) The country that you are calling from Afghanistan Åland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia, Plurinational State of Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, The Democratic Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Côte d´Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, Democratic People´s Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People´s Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia, The former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Republic of Ireland Réunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Vietnam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Please note this service is not available if you are paying on your phone bill. Back Next Thanks, we'll call you back shortly. Enjoy your reading! How was your reading? If you've had a reading with and would like to leave feedback, enter the phone number or email address you used for your reading, select the number of stars and leave a review. Name: Phone Number or Email Address used: Your Star Rating: Your Review: Current Ratings: Available in Sorry, I'm on a call right now, but you can arrange for a call back as soon as I'm free. I am currently offline but I am scheduled to log in at . If you are paying via Credit/Debit card or PayPal credits and if you have a Purple Hearts Club account you can queue up to speak to me as soon as I become available. Phone Number Please enter a valid telephone number (Your Phone Number needs to be in local format excluding the international dialing code e.g. 7021234567) The country that you are calling from Afghanistan Åland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia, Plurinational State of Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, The Democratic Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Côte d´Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, Democratic People´s Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People´s Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia, The former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Republic of Ireland Réunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Vietnam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Please note this service is not available if you are paying on your phone bill. Next Sorry, I'm not logged on for right now, but you can arrange for a text or email alert when I'm next available Phone Number or Email Address Please enter a valid email address or telephone number (Your Phone Number needs to be in local format excluding the international dialing code e.g. 7021234567) The country that you are calling from Afghanistan Åland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia, Plurinational State of Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, The Democratic Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Côte d´Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, Democratic People´s Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People´s Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia, The former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Republic of Ireland Réunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Vietnam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Submit Your browser does not support the audio element. Please Upgrade or choose another browser. Ask The Answer TV Presenter: Anne Scholes Theme: Ask Anne When: 19/06/2023 11:00 Pacific Standard Time Duration: 60 mins New romance or an old flame? Career opportunities? Maybe a house move? What is happening around you right now? Psychic Anne Scholes is LIVE to answer your burning questions... Text in your question by sending ANNE your NAME and your QUESTION to 07700 152500. Texts are charged as one standard text message. Explore Ask The Answer TV Horoscopes Steve Judd has been Ask The Answer's resident astrologer almost since it's inception. His unique take on astrology make his monthly videoscopes compelling viewing! Global Forecast - June 2023 All Horoscopes Latest Articles and Blogs How Do You Know If You Should Let Go? Shelly - 15th June 2023 Read More Let’s face it, relationships are challenging. They are not always as perfect as the old romance books make them out to be. They have probl... Pet Communication: What Animals Teach Us Ambriel - 8th June 2023 Read More Extraordinary, Exhilarating, Evolving, are just a few pertinent words relating to the connection between human and animal world. To the spi... All Articles and Blogs Latest Reviews We actively encourage our customers to leave feedback about their favourite readers, this can be done in two ways: ‘Ratings’ and ‘Reviews’ If you want to leave a rating, just click on the stars on a profile card, enter your phone number and score out of 5 and submit, it’s that easy! To leave a review just write a comment in the box provided. Stevie F by Alice Rated: 5 Very sweet and kind reader, very laid back and patient. For me I would go back if looking more for self improvement spiritually and physically but probably not for or predictions, though perhaps, mis-communication was a the issue. But good heart and so easy to chat with. Good luck Xx Cindee by Ameena Rated: 5 Sorry we got cut off. Hopefully we get to speak longer next time. Thank you for answering my questions. Love your reading. Thanks xxxx Kerry by Kamal Rated: 5 1st time reading..OMG she is fantastic ! she knows her stuff she gave me timelines which she confirmed and clarified with 2-3 other tarot decks she went into real details and l could feel she definitely has a very strong and profound link relationship with her guides definitely a top reader on site! Read more about Reviews More About Live Phone Readers WHAT ARE PHONE READINGS? Many people are now having telephone psychic readings but many people have asked “Can a telephone psychic reading be as accurate as a face to face reading?” If you’ve never had a telephone reading before and are thinking of having one but you are not sure let us reassure you that whilst many readers use tarot and angel cards, runes etc you don’t need to handle the cards to have a reading. Many use voice vibrations to link in with you. If you are still not sure then remember our ‘5 minute pledge’ that if you call and pay using your credit or debit card and you are not happy with your choice of reader or reading then if you hang up in the first 5 minutes then you will not be charged. The other main benefit of having telephone readings is that it means you can connect with quality psychics who are based all around the world, not just close to your house! WHAT KIND OF THINGS CAN I DISCOVER FROM A PHONE READING? There are several things you can discover from having a phone reading, the first is clarity. If a situation has been clouding over you for some time it helps to sometimes get a fresh perspective and a neutral view over your situation. The second thing you can get is options, with any troubling situation people need to know what options they have to move on and get a positive outcome. Also, our readers can give you reassurance that you are on the right path to get the outcome you desire and offer advice if you need it. HOW DO I CHOOSE A PHONE READER? Here at Ask The Answer we have telephone readers who use a variety of tools and use a variety of skills in their readings. If you are looking for a reader who uses a specific tool or gift in their readings then you can find them from the ‘Phone Readers’ menu at the top of this page. Some of the tools used by our readers include tarot cards, angel cards, runes and astrology. Some of the gifts used by our readers include psychic ability, clairvoyance and mediumship, whilst some readers are able to help you along your spiritual journey as they are spirit coaches. As well as these skills and gifts many of our readers have many special skills they use, to find out more read the profile pages of the individual readers. HOW LONG WILL MY PHONE READING BE? If you have chosen to pay via your credit or debit card then readings are usually 20 minutes or 30 minutes long and after the allotted time is up you are prompted to see if you would like to extend your reading. Your card is then authorised again and you are connected back to the reader you were talking to. This process only takes seconds and does not interfere with the reading. If you choose to pay for your reading using credits or on your telephone bill then you are in control as you will only be charged for the amount of minutes that you are connected. However by Phone-paid Services Authority regulations we must terminate calls paid on your telephone bill after £30 (39 minutes) has been spent. WHAT KIND OF QUESTIONS CAN I ASK IN A PHONE READING? Some good questions to ask include: Is my partner going to make contact? Do you see new love coming into my life? Can you connect to a loved one of mine in spirit? Do you see a new job or promotion in my career? Will my desired house move happen? PHONE LOVE READINGS One of the most common subjects brought up during telephone readings are matters of the heart. A love reading is a powerful route to find the answers you seek. Phone readings allow our readers to impart their wisdom to guide you on the right path to take. One of the most important things to remember is not to ask yes or no questions. Examples include “Will I find my true love?”, “Will my current relationship work?”, “Will he ask me to marry me soon?” or “Is he cheating on me?” To achieve more insight with a phone love reading, it is best to ask open questions such as “What can I do to manifest love into my life?” or maybe “What would be the best way to reconnect with a past love?” or “How I can ensure this is the right relationship for me?” Open questions on your relationship issues can provide better direction on changing an outcome based on the choices you make. Try a phone love reading now and see how it can guide you regarding past, present and future relationships. Customer Care Our customer care team is available from Monday to Friday from 9am to 5pm (GMT) and can be Contacted Here . Alternatively your question may be answered by reading our FAQ section . Follow Us Keep up to date with all of the latest goings on at Ask The Answer, connect today! Home About Help and FAQs Contact Terms Privacy Policy Cookies New Reader Registration Sitemap Payments Secured by: © 2023 Pure Predictions Ltd all rights reserved. You have to be 18 or over to use this site. Email Address: User Name is required. Password: Forgot Password? Your Password is required. Remember me next time. New to Purple Hearts? Become a Purple Hearts member, for free credits, exclusive bonus offers and amazing psychic extras! Create your Purple Hearts Account Angel Cards Astrology Clairvoyants Mediums Psychics Runes Spirit Coach Tarot Phone Email IM Cams Skills Top