Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 24 24 Building Plot and Existing House on Warren Lane, Lickey, B45 8ER See map Guide Price £1,900,000 PROPERTY TYPE Plot BEDROOMS ×4 BATHROOMS ×4 1 Property description Summary A SUPERB DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITY WITH OUTLINE PLANNING CONSENT FOR A "GRAND DESIGN" NEW BUILD HOME ALONGSIDE A SPACIOUS 4 DOUBLE BEDROOM FAMILY HOME WITHIN THE PICTURESQUE LICKEY HILLS Combined sale of building plot & Rose Hill House Building Plot Permission was granted in 2022 for an ultra contemporary 'grand design' home of approximately 5,400 sq. ft to be built within it's own 0.37 acre plot (approx.). The accommodation has been designed to include a grand ground level entrance hall, lounge, dining room, breakfast kitchen, utility, office and living room. The first floor offers a master bedroom with dressing room and en suite, four additional bedrooms (one with en suite) and house bathroom. The lower ground floor comprises a double garage, gym and pool/sauna room. Please see attached plans. For full details, visit the Bromsgrove Council Planning Portal - Planning reference: 22/00812/FUL Rose Hill House A substantial 1970's property of approximately 3,350 sq. ft located on a highly private 0.95 acre plot (approx.) and enjoying the backdrop of the picturesque 524 acre Lickey Hills Country Park. The property boasts generous room sizes and is perfect for those looking for a unique renovation to create an idyllic country home. In addition, planning permission was granted in 2022 for an ultra contemporary 'grand design' home of 5,400 sq. ft to be built within it's own 0.37 acre plot (approx.). This exciting self build project allows a potential developer to create a bespoke home tailored to specific design requirements within the grounds. Description The accommodation of the existing house comprises: Enclosed porch, generous entrance hall with guest WC, magnificent lounge with feature fireplace and sliding door to the garden, formal dining room, conservatory, kitchen/diner and utility room, sun room with underfloor heating, office and ground floor shower room. The first floor features a large master bedroom suite complete with en suite shower room, three additional double bedrooms (one with en suite) and a house bathroom. The existing garage block is within the boundaries of the new development and will therefore require demolition however, a certificate of lawfulness has been granted for the addition of an 80 sq. m garage block to be erected within the grounds of Rose Hill House. Rose Hill House boasts impressive wrap around gardens featuring a plethora of mature trees and wildlife. Birds, squirrels, foxes and even muntjac deer are regular visitors. A decommissioned swimming pool is located to the rear of the property with a changing room outbuilding. This combined sale offers the discerning purchaser scope and vision to create two idyllic homes within the picturesque Lickey Hills. Both houses would feature their own private driveways. Services Mains electricity, water and drainage. Oil fired central heating. Location Lickey is a semi-rural village set within the picturesque Lickey Hills. This property is located within the catchment area of Lickey Hills Primary School and offers excellent travel links to Birmingham and Worcester with easy access to the M5 (Junction 4) and M42 (Junction 1). The delightful village of Barnt Green is approximately 1.8 miles away and features local shopping facilities, a popular First School with 'Outstanding' Ofsted Status, two renowned gastropubs and train station. There are many sporting facilities including Lickey Hill Golf Club as well as Blackwell Golf Club, sailing and cricket club within Barnt Green and many other clubs and societies. Lickey itself boasts 'Beacon Hill' - the most famous viewpoint at the Lickey Hills. The hill rises to 297m (975 feet) above sea level, giving expansive views of the surrounding countryside. There's a toposcope in a small "fort" on the top of the hill which points out the direction to notable landscape features you can see from Beacon Hill. On a clear day points in 13 old counties can be seen. The nearby town of Bromsgrove provides a further array of facilities including both public and private schooling across all age groups. Rose Hill House Room Dimensions Living Room 8.97m (max) x 5.14m (29'5" x 16'10") Entrance Hall 6.88m (max) x 4.1m (22'6" x 13'5") Dining Room 3.91m x 5.15m (12'9" x 16'10") Conservatory 3.09m x 4.25m (10'1" x 13'11") Kitchen/Diner 5.99m (max) x 5.04m (max) (19'7" x 16'6") Sun Room 4.57m x 3.2m (14'11" x 10'5") Utility Room 3.72m x 1.61m (12'2" x 5'3") Office 3.59m x 4.99m (11'9" x 16'4") Shower Room 1.57m x 1.77m (5'1" x 5'9") Bedroom 1 6.07m (max) x 6.31m (19'10" x 20'8") En Suite 2.56m x 3.73m (max) (8'4" x 12'2") Bedroom 2 3.93m x 4.52m (12'10" x 14'9") Bedroom 3 3.93m x 3.46m (12'10" x 11'4") En Suite 2.32m x 1.49m (7'7" x 4'10") Bedroom 4 3.13m x 3.44m (10'3" x 11'3") Bathroom 4.26m x 2.69m (13'11" x 8'9") Garage 12.07m x 6.21m (39'7" x 20'4") Garage 9.3m x 2.91m (30'6" x 9'6") As part of the approved planning, both garages would be demolished. Please read the following: These particulars are for general guidance only and are based on information supplied and approved by the seller. Complete accuracy cannot be guaranteed and may be subject to errors and/or omissions. They do not constitute a contract or part of a contract in any way. We are not surveyors or conveyancing experts therefore we cannot and do not comment on the condition, issues relating to title or other legal issues that may affect this property. Interested parties should employ their own professionals to make enquiries before carrying out any transactional decisions. Photographs are provided for illustrative purposes only and the items shown in these are not necessarily included in the sale, unless specifically stated. The mention of any fixtures, fittings and/or appliances does not imply that they are in full efficient working order and they have not been tested. All dimensions are approximate. We are not liable for any loss arising from the use of these details. Read more Building Plot and Existing House on Warren Lane, Lickey, B45 8ER Open map Street View NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Barnt Green Station 1.3 miles Longbridge Station 1.9 miles Alvechurch Station 2.7 miles About the agent Arden Estates, Barnt Green 67 Hewell Road, Barnt Green, B45 8NL About Arden Arden Estates was formed in 2010, with the aim of setting new standards in all areas of the way an Estate Agent operates. We are proud to be leading the way in each town in which we operate. We believe that by focusing on what our customers actually want, and what is right for them, we can build a loyal and committed relationship. By investing and embracing all that has changed in our world in recent times, we never stop trying and testing new marketing metho Read more More properties from this agent Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Arden Estates, Barnt Green 67 Hewell Road, Barnt Green, B45 8NL More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 387 6453 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference S229512. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Arden Estates, Barnt Green . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 387 6453 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho