Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 26 26 Cottesmore Gardens, London, W8 See map Guide Price £36,000,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 14/03/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×7 BATHROOMS ×7 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features 7 bedrooms 6 reception rooms 7 bathrooms Period Balcony Detached Garden Swimming Pool Town/City Property description Located on one of the best roads in Kensington, this imposing double house extends to more than 54ft / 16m in width, offering lateral living so often requested but so hard to find in central London. There has been a house on the site of 12-14 Cottesmore Gardens since at least 1869. The current house has been altered, extended and most notably joined over the subsequent century and a half. With the local planning department strongly opposed to further amalgamation of homes, opportunities to acquire a house of this width will be rarer still in the future. The house has over 12,300 sq ft of internal space complimented by gardens to the front and rear as well as two south-facing terraces. Unusually for such a large house, the space does not include any subterranean rooms – the entire house is above ground and benefits from excellent natural light. The house is arranged over just five floors and is served by a large passenger lift to all levels. There are several double-height spaces within the house including a spectacular kitchen family room with floor to ceiling doors leading onto the large and private south-facing garden. Arguably the best room in the house is the double aspect full width drawing room which extends to more than 54ft in width across the first floor with six windows overlooking the street and additional views over the private garden to the rear. The principal bedroom extends to more than 2,000 sq ft and is complimented by two bathrooms and three dressing rooms. In addition to the principal suite there are five further bedrooms on the upper floors and two supplementary/staff bedrooms on the garden level giving a total of eight bedrooms served by seve b bathrooms. Cottesmore Gardens has significant amenity spaces including a double height cinema/games room and a swimming pool with direct access into the garden. The house is presented in good order throughout, however, a pre-planning consultation has been carried out with RBKC by leading architects Studio Indigo, which would completely reconfigure the house adding an additional basement floor and taking the internal space to more than 15,000 sq ft. The resulting house would have a 40 x 41ft south-facing rear garden. Cottesmore Gardens is quietly positioned on this pretty street just moments from Hyde Park and all the amenities that High Street Kensington has to offer. Transport links, shops and restaurants are all at your fingertips along with some of the most highly regarded schools on your doorstep. There is also a private security car that patrols the neighbourhood. Brochures More Details Brochure.pdf Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. Generated EPC Graph. Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent Cottesmore Gardens, London, W8 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode High Street Kensington Station 0.3 miles Gloucester Road Station 0.3 miles Earls Court Station 0.6 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Knight Frank, Kensington 52-56 Kensington Church Street, London W8 4DB About us About us We are passionate about property. Our foundations are built on supporting clients in one of the most significant decisions they'll make in their lifetime. As your partners in property, we act with integrity and are here to help you achieve the very best price for your home in the quickest possible time. We offer a range of services for your property requirements. If you are selling, buying or letting a home, or you need some frank advice and insight on th Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Knight Frank, Kensington 52-56 Kensington Church Street, London W8 4DB More properties from this agent Call agent : 020 3869 4031 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference KEN012289491. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Knight Frank, Kensington . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 020 3869 4031 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho