Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. Find out more Manage cookies Allow all cookies Manage Cookies Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. For more information about how we and our partners use cookies on our site, see our Cookie Policy Strictly necessary These cookies are necessary for the Savills website to function. Examples of this include: setting your privacy preferences, logging in to your Savills account, or filling in forms. Though these cookies cannot be switched off, you can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but please be aware that this will stop some parts of the Savills website from functioning as intended. Find out more about strictly necessary cookies here . Always allowed Functional cookies These cookies are used to enhance the performance of the Savills website, as without them certain functions of the website may not be available. While they are not vital for the website to run, they allow us to remember important information and your preferences such as previous location searches. Find out more about functional cookies here . Allow Targeting & tracking These cookies record your activity on the Savills website and our partners may use that information to show you adverts that they think you will be most interested in when you visit other websites. We may also use information recorded by these cookies to see how well these adverts are performing. Find out more about targeting and tracking cookies here . Allow Save and close Allow all cookies Location and Language Selection Close United Kingdom Location Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe United Kingdom Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe Language English English English Book a valuation Search Close Site Search: Search My Account Menu Menu > Find a property > Market your property > Find a service > Why Savills > Insight & Opinion > Contact us Close Find a property Find a property Whether buying a townhouse or selling a country cottage, leasing corporate office space or renting farmland, our experts make it their business to understand your needs and help you find the right property. Search for a property Residential Search for a residential property Buy a property in London Rent a property in London New homes for sale Properties in Europe Properties in the Caribbean Properties in the US Properties in Asia Pacific Properties in The Alps Farms & Estates Search for rural property Farms for sale Estates for sale Equestrian property for sale Commercial Search for a commercial property Offices to lease in the UK Development land for sale in the UK Retail properties Industrial properties to lease Leisure properties for sale Hotels for sale Flexible office space Investment properties for sale Residential investment Student housing investment Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert What's your property worth? Get expert advice for residential, commercial or rural property, grounded in our experience and knowledge of local, regional and international markets. Arrange a market appraisal Property auctions As one of the UK’s leading auction houses, we offer a large selection of residential and commercial property for sale by auction. More Information Where are residential property sales holding up the strongest? Residential Sales 31 May 2023 We forecast that limited mortgage availability and high interest rates would see home buying activity levels fall in 2023. Read this article Market your property Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an agent Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Market your property Whether you're planning to sell, rent or are undecided, we have an expert who can help. More Information Selling a Residential Property Letting a Residential Property Auctioning a Property Selling a Mews Property Selling New-Build Property Selling International Property Selling a Farm Selling a Fishing Beat Selling a Forest or Woodland Selling a Quarry or Waste Management Facility Selling a Shoot Selling an Estate Selling Country Property Selling Equestrian Property Selling Waterfront Property Interior, Furnishing and Refurbishment Services Private Office Selling Commercial Property Selling Healthcare Property Selling Leisure or Trade-Related Property Real Estate Insights Podcast: Impacts 2023: what is the purpose of property? Research 7 June 2023 Our latest podcast discusses how financial, environmental and social purposes intersect, and how they can be measured, as well as unveiling some of the key findings to emerge from this year’s Impacts publication. Read this article Find a service Find a service Savills offers a wide range of specialist services from financial and investment advice to valuation, planning and property management. More Information Asset Management Auctions Buying or Selling Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Private Office Property Management Research Savills Earth (ESG Consulting) Valuation Browse by sector Our services cover a broad range of property sectors. More Information Affordable Housing Auctions Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food & Farming Forestry Healthcare High St/In Town Retail Hotels Industrial & Logistics Infrastructure Leisure Marine Minerals & Commodities Mixed Use Office & Business Space Operational Capital Markets Out of Town Retail Public Sector Pubs, Bars & Restaurants Residential Residential Investment & Development Residential Development Sales Retail Rural Science & Technology Senior Living Serviced Offices Shopping Centres Trade-Related Sports Venues Student Accommodation Telecoms Utilities Visitor Attractions Vineyards Waste Management Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Find your nearest office With over 40,000 people working across more than 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Why Savills Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise spans the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East. More Information How we work Our integrity, honesty and professionalism is what gives our clients, colleagues, investors and business partners the confidence to work with us. More Information Innovation and technology Savills is at the forefront of exploring and developing new capabilities, bringing together people and technology to push boundaries and take real estate to a new level. More Information Awards Over the years we have been recognised as ‘best in class’ in a diverse range of disciplines. More Information Sustainability & ESG Savills UK sustainability strategy aims to achieve a positive impact on the environment and society, whilst maintaining robust governance measures. More Information Investor relations Savills Plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange within the FTSE250 index. Our annual reports and investor updates can be found online. Visit our Investor Relations site Diversity & Inclusion Savills is committed to eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity amongst our workforce. More information Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion is our hub for residential, commercial and rural articles and research from experts offering industry-leading advice and analysis. Research In-depth research and analysis into property market trends, forecasts from our specialist research teams, and market-leading commentary to help you make the right property decisions. Browse our market research Subscribe to Savills Research Residential reports Residential forecasts Office reports Retail reports Rural reports Residential property prices and trends ESG Research Industrial reports Residential development & investment Savills Indices Research services Webinars The Savills Blog The latest UK and international property market news and opinions, plus helpful guides and top tips from our renowned industry experts. Read the Savills Blog Savills News Up-to-the-minute news from our press teams providing the latest developments within Savills, and across the property industry. Read our press releases Savills Podcasts Keep yourself informed on the ‘real’ behind the real estate headlines, our podcast brings you engaging and insightful discussion with experts across our global business on the issues that matter most in property. Listen to the podcasts Portfolio by Savills Portfolio by Savills seamlessly blends the latest trends, inspirational lifestyle content, and the world’s finest properties with the expert insight and analysis you would expect from Savills. Portfolio has property at its heart, and we’d like you to be part of it. Explore Portfolio by Savills Contact us Find an office With over 40,000 people working across 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Our offices by region London East of England East Midlands North East North West South East South West West Midlands Yorkshire & The Humber Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Channel Islands Find a person Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Careers with Savills At Savills, our most valuable resource is our people. We are known for our positive, entrepreneurial culture, and for attracting some of the most innovative, dedicated and knowledgeable people in the business. More Information Current Vacancies General enquiries We're here to provide you with more information, answer any questions you may have, or connect you with the right people to help with your needs. Use our general enquiry form to get in touch today. Speak to the team 6 of the best...Former rectories Residential Sales 9 June 2023 From the recently renovated to the classically stylish, featured here are a few of our favourite examples currently on the market. Read this article > Home Insight & Opinion Publication Support for new homes sales: life after Help to Buy 26 January 2022 Article Contacts & Related Research The end of Help to Buy will leave a large gap in demand for new homes in England when it ends in March 2023 . The scheme has supported 31.4% of all new homes sales since its inception in 2013 and 36.0% in the three years to Q1 2021. So this milestone marks a major change for new homes buyers and for developers. Schemes including Deposit Unlock, First Homes and an expanded Shared Ownership programme may fill a large proportion of the gap left by Help to Buy. Developers will also be delivering more new homes for grant funded affordable housing (including Shared Ownership) and Build to Rent. HOW DOES HELP TO BUY HELP BUYERS? Deposit Barrier Help to Buy purchasers only need a 5% minimum deposit. Only 4.0% of all house purchases in the UK over the last five years were made with a deposit of less than 10%, due to the scarcity of mortgage products at this level. The average deposit for a first time buyer in the whole market over the same period was 24.2%. Buyers can deploy a larger deposit if they wish, but 54% of all Help to Buy purchases have been made with the minimum 5%. Loan to income restrictions Despite the small deposit, buyers only need to borrow 75% of the property value. This means that the mortgage interest rate is much lower for users of Help to Buy than other buyers with the same deposit. Mortgages at a LTV of 75% had an average interest rate of 1.29% in October 2021. For 95% mortgages, the average rate was 2.97%. It also means that buyers with only 5% deposit can access higher value homes without hitting up against loan to income caps. Someone borrowing 4.5 times their income and using Help to Buy would need to borrow 5.7 times their income without Help to Buy. As banks are not permitted to do more than 15% of their lending at loan to income multiples of more than 4.5, that is unlikely to be possible for most buyers. Some higher LTI mortgages are available, but typically these are subject to minimum income requirements and maximum loan to value ratios. Repayment costs The 20% equity loan (40% in London) is free of interest for five years. Often underestimated, this is a major advantage for buyers using the scheme compared to other home ownership schemes. After five years, interest becomes due on a Help to Buy equity loan at 1.75% of its value, rising at CPI plus 2% each year. This level of interest is cheaper than Shared Ownership, where rent of 2.75% is usually charged against the retained equity and there is no rent free period. So Help to Buy has given new homes a major competitive advantage in the housing market. Without these advantages, aspiring homeowners may have less reason to choose new build over existing homes even if they can afford to. CAN BUYERS MAKE THE SAME PURCHASES WITHOUT HELP TO BUY? Deposit One of the original aims of Help to Buy was to make homeownership accessible to those purchasers with only a 5% deposit. Such mortgages have been very scarce since the Global Financial Crisis in 2008. Although availability has improved, the number of higher loan to value mortgages completed each year has remained very low compared to pre-GFC levels. The number of loans completed at more than 75% loan to value was still 50% lower in 2019 than it was in 2007. We estimate that Help to Buy has accounted for around half of all house purchases by buyers with up to a 10% deposit since its inception. Just over half of Help to Buy users (54%) have used only a 5% deposit and a further 24% used up to a 10% deposit. Two thirds of these buyers would find it very difficult to make the same purchase without Help to Buy or a similar scheme to help them overcome the deposit barrier. Loan to income ratio Bank of England analysis of the first four years of Help to Buy looked at loan to income multiples as well as deposits. 2 Of those buyers with a deposit of 10% or more, only one third of them would be able to obtain a mortgage without breaching the 4.5 income multiple barrier. Combining consideration of both income and deposit, the Bank of England analysis suggests that only between 10 and 15% of Help to Buy users would be able to make the same purchase without Help to Buy. This estimate appears to conflict with the findings of the Government commissioned evaluation of Help to Buy, published in 2017. 3 It found that 45% of Help to Buy users could have afforded to buy the property they wanted or the property they actually bought without using the scheme. This was based on a survey of 1,500 users of the scheme, conducted by Ipsos Mori. This could be right if those Help to Buy users have substantial savings that they could have used for their deposit, but chose not to. Since house prices have risen consistently across most of the country since 2013, this would be an unusual choice. The equity loan remains a proportion of the property value, so if prices are going up, the cash value of the equity loan also increases. It is possible that respondents to the survey thought they would have used an alternative scheme to buy their chosen home, if Help to Buy hadn’t been available. Shared Ownership would have been an option for many, but volumes are limited by the amount of grant funding available through the Affordable Homes Programmes and number of homes delivered through Section 106. 1 Bank of England analysis of Homes England data suggests this is about half of the buyers in this band. 2 Housing consumption and investment: evidence from shared equity mortgages, Bank of England Staff Working Paper No. 790, Matteo Benetton, Philippe Bracke, João F Cocco and Nicola Garbarino, April 2019 3 Evaluation of the Help to Buy Equity Loan Scheme 2017, Christine Whitehead, Peter Williams, Ipsos MORI and the London School of Economics, Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government, October 2018 WHAT ARE THE ALTERNATIVES TO HELP TO BUY? Over the last three years, Help to Buy and Shared Ownership have supported an average of 72,000 new homes sales each year. It is now clear that there will be a range of support options available to prospective buyers of new homes after the end of Help to Buy. If First Homes, Deposit Unlock and Shared Ownership fulfil their potential over the three years following the final end of Help to Buy in March 2023, then they could support the delivery a combined 50,000 homes per year. Other private sector schemes, such as Market Mortgage and Wayhome, will also play a role. A further 5,000 will be able to buy unassisted, according to our estimates based on the Bank of England analysis. These are buyers with at least a 10% deposit and a LTI ratio of no more than 4.5. That leaves a gap of 17,000 homes per year. HELP TO BUY ALTERNATIVES IN DETAIL Deposit Unlock The Housebuilders' solution Volume housebuilders are the biggest potential casualties of the Help to Buy withdrawal. The Home Builders Federation has created ‘Deposit Unlock’ with the reinsurance broker, Gallagher Re. All of the major housebuilders are backing the scheme and one of the largest lenders, Nationwide, has signed up to be one of the mortgage providers. Their current interest rate 2.9%, higher than Help to Buy. This may fall as volumes rise. The scheme enables buyers to acquire new homes with only a 5% deposit, thereby replicating one of the key selling points of Help to Buy. This scheme means that buying a new home will be much easier than purchasing an existing home for those with a 5% deposit, so new build will retain some of the competitive advantage that Help to Buy bestowed. Mortgage lenders are protected by a mortgage guarantee funded by the housebuilder that covers 35% of the property value. This is done in the background so, as far as they buyer in concerned, their loan is a standard mortgage product. The buyer must however borrow the remaining property value and the challenge will be avoiding the 4.5x loan to income multiple cap. The Bank of England’s analysis of Help to Buy users suggests 46% of them could have made the same purchase at 95% LTV without falling foul of the loan to income cap. This scheme has the potential to help that substantial proportion of Help to Buy users to continue buying new homes, supporting around 19,000 annual sales. First Homes The Government’s offering First Homes are a discounted market sale product. They are sold at a price between 30 and 50% below market value, a discount that remains in perpetuity. The maximum value of a First Home, after the discount is applied, is £250,000 (or £420,000 in London). After an initial grant funded pilot of 1,000 homes, future First Homes will be delivered through the planning system as part of Section 106. The level of discount and detailed eligibility criteria for buyers will be set by local planning authorities, but the scheme will not be available to households with a combined income of over £80,000. Planning Practice Guidance states that 25% of all affordable homes secured through Section 106 should be first homes. We have estimated that this will yield approximately 7,000 First Homes each year, once the new requirement has become established. How First Homes will fit into the housing market jigsaw is complex. This is due to the value caps, varying levels of housing affordability around the country and the option for local authorities to set different discount levels. Our previous analysis of this can be found here . Shared Ownership The tried and tested Shared Ownership is a well-established affordable housing tenure. Buyers purchase an initial stake in the home and rent the rest at a discounted level. Before Help to Buy, initial stakes of over 50% were common, but as a result of competition from Help to Buy lower initial stakes have become more dominant. Until recently, the initial stake had to be at least 25%, but this has been reduced to 10%. The overall volume of Shared Ownership is limited by the amount of subsidy available. This comes either from the Affordable Homes Programme or Section 106. Although Section 106 funded homes are likely to be reduced by the new First Homes requirement (see above), the number funded by grant through the Affordable Home Programme could increase by a factor of three over the next five years. In total, this could mean an additional 7,000 homes for Shared Ownership each year between April 2023 and March 2026 compared to the last three years. How long this level of delivery lasts will depend on affordable housing funding after the end of the current 2021-26 programme. WHAT WILL FILL THE GAP? Build to rent We expect that the growing demand for investment in build to rent homes could fill most, if not all, of this gap in delivery left by the withdrawal of Help to Buy. Before the disruption of the pandemic, Build to Rent volumes had doubled over the three years to 2020 and, given the appetite from the investment community, we think expecting volumes to double again by 2026 is conservative. That would deliver 13,000 additional homes per year over the three years to 2026 compared to the last three years, reducing the size of the gap to just 4,000 homes per year. Changing the product Many Help to Buy users would be unable to use Deposit Unlock without breaching the loan to income cap, as discussed above. How much cheaper would new homes need to be for them to be able to afford them? Most current Help to Buy users would exceed the LTI cap by a relatively small amount. Without the equity loan, circa 18% of Help to Buy users would be at LTIs of between 4.5 and 5.0 (according to the Bank of England analysis). If they were to buy a home up to 8% cheaper, they would be below the LTI cap. A further 17% would be between 5.0 and 5.5, and could get under the 4.5x cap with a home up to 17% cheaper. If just a quarter of these buyers, who would be between 4.5 and 5.5 LTI, could be satisfied with a cheaper, and likely smaller, home, additional demand could be generated for nearly 5,000 new homes. < View All Research Residential Authors Chris Buckle Director Residential Research +44 (0) 20 7016 3881 Contact Now Emily Williams Director Residential Research +44 (0) 20 3618 3583 Contact Now Gaby Foord Director Residential Research +44 (0) 20 7299 3003 Contact Now Read Time: 6 minutes residential Research Share this article Share this article Support for new homes sales: life after Help to Buy https://www.savills.co.uk/research_articles/229130/324332-0 Copy Download PDF Subscribe to Research Related Research Residential 05 June 2023 Residential research update: June 2023 Residential 05 June 2023 UK Housing Market Update - June 2023 Residential 15 May 2023 Residential research update: May 2023 Subscribe to receive exclusive news and listings free Send Success! You are now subscribed to the Savills mailing list. Sorry, something went wrong. Residential Property For sale Property for sale Property for sale Scotland Property for sale England Property for sale Wales Property for sale in London Help to Buy in London Help to Buy in UK New developments for sale in England New developments for sale in London New developments for sale in Scotland For rent Property to rent in UK Property to rent Scotland Property to rent England Property to rent Wales Property to rent in London New developments to rent in England New developments to rent in London New developments to rent in Scotland Commercial Property For sale Commercial property for sale Development property for sale Industrial properties for sale Leisure properties for sale Offices for sale Hotels for sale Land for sale Industrial property for sale England Hotels for sale in England Offices for sale in England Flexible office space For rent Office property to let Industrial property to let Pubs to let Rural Property Rural property for sale Farms for sale Equestrian property for sale Country estates for sale International Property for sale in Europe Property for sale in France Property for sale in the US Property for sale in Italy Property for sale in Australia Offices All UK offices UK offices by county London Offices Find an office worldwide Services & Sectors Services Asset Management Buying or Selling Property Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Property Management Valuation Sectors Affordable Housing Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food and Farming Healthcare Hotels Industrial And logistics Infrastructure and Transport Leisure Minerals and Commodities Office & Business Space Public Sector Residential Retail Rural Senior Living Serviced Offices Student Accommodation Telecoms Trade-Related & Specialist Sectors Utilities Waste Management More Information Sitemap RSS Feeds Accessibility Feedback TDS Explained Provision of Services Slavery & Human Trafficking Terms & Conditions Privacy & Cookies Client Money Protection Scotland Letting Agent Code of Practice Help to Buy Calculator Residential Stamp Duty Calculator Commercial Stamp Duty Calculator Rental Yield Calculator Land & Buildings Transaction Tax (LBTT) Calculator ESG at Savills Fees & Charges Residential Tenant Fees & Charges Residential Landlord Fees & Charges Talk to Us Find a Savills Office Find a Savills Employee Book a Property Valuation Careers with Savills Ask a Question Investor Relations All content © copyright Savills. All rights reserved. Savills plc, incorporated and registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD. Registered number: 2122174. Savills plc is a holding company, some of whose subsidiaries are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and some of whose subsidiaries are regulated by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). Find us on social Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Facebook YouTube