Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 38 38 47 Braehead Road, Thorntonhall See map Offers Over £1,250,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Reduced on 19/05/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×5 SIZE 5,576 sq. ft. (518 sq. m.) TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features An innovative architect designed contemporary house extending to approximately 6270 square feet of accommodation, triple garage and landscaped gardens. A wonderful combination of entertainment/recreation space combined with family living . High end bespoke finishes and a stylish decor throughout. Private and secluded landscaped garden grounds. Gated driveway offering parking for multiple vehicles giving access to triple garage. Property description Description The bold architectural design delivers exceptional internal space with the focus providing outstanding entertainment areas including in-house spa, cinema room, large recreation space with doors connecting to gardens and the house provides a luxurious level of finish and internal viewing is recommended. Notable specification includes a high-performance gas central heating system (upgraded boiler), traditional double-glazed windows, security electronic access gates, monitor alarm system, CCTV security and the level of workmanship and finish is sure to impress. Entrance vestibule leading into split level reception hallway with beautiful oak flooring, outstanding bespoke dining kitchen open to family room, all extending to 36 feet with crafted light oak units with contrasting black granite worktops and bespoke glass top breakfasting bar, family area gives access to decked balcony to rear, further accommodation at this level includes beautiful luxurious lounge with limestone fireplace, elegant formal dining room and the ground floor is completed by two lovely bedrooms, both with contemporary styled en-suite shower rooms. The lower ground garden level is an outstanding space for entertaining and recreation with large games room, bi-fold doors leading through to gym, in-house spa with steam room, fully equipped cinema room, lovely home office and large hallway leading to triple garage, utility room, WC, further storage and wine cellar. The first floor accommodation is a lovely suite of bedrooms with a large landing area with a room in itself giving access to principal bedroom with built-in wardrobes and stunning en-suite with wet room and quality fitments, accessing a fully fitted dressing room (bedroom five/nursery) and there is a further additional bedroom on this floor with stunning bathroom featuring a free-standing egg shaped bath, separate shower and beautiful tiling. There is expansive driveway providing parking for multiple vehicles with landscaped pathways and fully landscaped rear garden providing privacy, seclusion and lovely outside space which is all designed for low-maintenance living. EER Band C. Local Area Thorntonhall is a quiet leafy village displaying a variety of individual and impressive detached residences and is widely regarded as one of Glasgow's premier addresses. Excellent shopping facilities are available in East Kilbride or the nearby suburbs of Clarkston, Giffnock and Newton Mearns, with a number of major supermarkets including Waitrose and Whole Foods along with a wide range of exclusive brand shops in addition to Silverburn Shopping Centre. They also provide a variety of leisure and sporting facilities including tennis, rugby, bowling, equestrian and a selection of well-regarded golf courses. It also has transport links to the city centre and beyond by way of its own train station. Directions On entering the village of Thorntonhall on Peel Road, proceed onwards through the first two roundabouts turning left onto Braehead Road, continue on the same and the property is on the right hand side from this approach. Brochures Brochure 1 Web Details Read more Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent 47 Braehead Road, Thorntonhall Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Thorntonhall Station 0.3 miles Busby Station 1.0 miles Hairmyres Station 1.1 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Corum, Newton Mearns 134 Ayr Road, Newton Mearns, Glasgow, G77 6EG Experience the difference Once, estate agents were estate agents. Nowadays, they're often lawyers, mortgage brokers and letting agents too - but not at Corum. We work exclusively in estate agency, meaning we devote 100% of our time doing what our customers want: securing the best price for their property. The agency's original founding partners worked together at one of the largest estate agencies in the country, until a company takeover led to a wholesale focus on Financial Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Corum, Newton Mearns 134 Ayr Road, Newton Mearns, Glasgow, G77 6EG More properties from this agent Call agent : 0141 673 1647 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference NM4058. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Corum, Newton Mearns . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0141 673 1647 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho