Search Report a repair Contact us My Move Account Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Sell Property valuation Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Local Sold House Prices Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Looking to move? Get your property valuation Get your conveyancing solicitor Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations How much can I afford? - use our budget planner and find out Something need fixing - Report a repair Landlords Rental valuation Book an accurate lettings valuation Get an instant online valuation Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations Looking to let? Get your property valuation Get your property managed New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Mortgages Mortgage Services Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Book your mortgage appointment About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection Branches Sales Amersham Hazlemere and Great Missenden High Wycombe Princes Risborough Land & New Homes Lettings Amersham High Wycombe Princes Risborough Fine & Country Fine & Country South Buckinghamshire Other departments Sales Progression Property Management JNP Handyman Services Head Office xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? My Move xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Branches xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Report a repair - Fixflo Branches Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Sell Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Local Sold House Prices Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Existing tenants Report a maintenance issue What to do in an emergency Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations Landlords Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Mortgages Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Careers About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection You're in control We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. To learn more about how we use cookies, please see our Cookie Policy . You can manage your preferences now on this banner, or via your browser at anytime. Functional Active Inactive Analytical Active Inactive Non-essential Active Inactive Manage Accept Home Sell Sellers FAQs Book a valuation Seller FAQs Find out more about the selling process with our frequently asked questions from sellers I want to sell a property. What do I do first? First of all you need to receive a valuation to find out how much your home is worth. We recommend asking at least three different estate agents to value your home. Ask them about the services they offer, the current state of the local market, and the price you can hope you achieve. Make a plan and consider what your priorities and timescales are. For more help, view our tips for getting started . How much will it cost to sell my property? There are three main costs involved in selling a property: Estate Agent Fees Estate Agent Fees will either be a percentage of the purchase price, or a fixed fee. When you ask the estate agents to value your home, make sure they outline their fees during their visit so you can take these into account. EPC You are legally required to provide an EPC when you market your property for sale. This outlines the energy efficiency rating of your property. We can organise this for you if you do not already have one. Contact your local branch for a quote for how much this will cost. Conveyancing Conveyancing is the legal transfer of property from one owner to another. There is a lot of legal and administrative work to do before contracts can be exchanged and completed. There is a lot to organise and co-ordinate, including legal matters, financial arrangements and regulations to comply with, so you need to use a solicitor. We can introduce you to a solicitor and offer a no sale no fee conveyancing service with a guaranteed fixed price to keep everything simple. Get in touch using our Conveyancing Enquiry form and an adviser will contact you to discuss your requirements. You may also decide to pay for extras such as professional photography or advanced web positioning. And don't forget about removals! Ask your agent to outline all these costs at the start of your sale so that you can budget your move. Do I need to conduct viewings? Your estate agent should accompany all viewings, but you may decide that you'd like to be present. It's entirely up to you. Will there be more viewings once I've accepted an offer? This depends on the conditions of the offer that you accept. Neither the buyer or the seller is bound to the purchase or sale until the contracts are signed, so it's worth keeping your options open. How long will it take to complete my sale? Every sale is different. Your position, the buyer's position and how many other people are in the chain will affect how long the process takes. If your home has been realistically valued, you could expect to receive offers within the first four weeks. Then, assuming your buyer has to apply for their mortgage the exchange of contracts normally takes between 4 and 8 weeks and completion takes between 2 and 4 weeks. So in total you should expect anywhere from 6 to 12 weeks to complete the sale. Do I need an EPC? In England, all sellers are required to purchase an EPC (Energy Performance Certificate) for a property before they sell it. Estate agents must display the EPC rating whenever they market the property. If a property does not have an EPC when marketed the buyer and the agent risk a fine. This does not apply to Grade II Listed properties. What is conveyancing? Conveyancing is the legal transfer of property from one owner to another. There is a lot of legal and administrative work to do before contracts can be exchanged and completed. There is a lot to organise and co-ordinate, including legal matters, financial arrangements and regulations to comply with, so you need to use a solicitor. We can introduce you to a solicitor and offer a no sale no fee conveyancing service with a guaranteed fixed price to keep everything simple. Get in touch using our Conveyancing Enquiry form and an adviser will contact you to discuss your requirements. Do I have to pay Stamp Duty? No. The buyer is responsible for paying Stamp Duty. Will my property be surveyed? In England you do not need to arrange a property survey, but it is likely that the buyer will, and so a surveyor will arrange an appointment to visit you home. The five key things a surveyor will be looking for are problems with utilities, damp, cracking, problems with roofs, and timber defects. In addition, your buyer's mortgage lender will organise a mortgage valuation to confirm that the property is worth the money being leant. What are searches? As part of the conveyancing process, your buyer's solicitor will perform searches of Land Registry and Local Authority information in relation to your home. They will be checking for planning history and any potential developments around roads, drainage and mining near the property. When do I sign the contract? Once the sale has been agreed, your solicitor will draft a contract. The buyer's solicitor will confirm the details of the property and perform searches. At the same time, the buyer's mortgage lender will conduct a mortgage valuation and send a mortgage offer to the buyer. When all of this is complete, you will be ready to sign the contract and agree the completion date. When is the buyer or seller bound to the sale or purchase? Until both solicitors receive signed contracts from the seller and the buyer (known as exchange of contracts), either party can pull out at any time and for any reason. How is a completion date chosen? When both contracts have been signed, the buyer's solicitor will request the mortgage from the their lender. Once these funds are released, then your solicitor and the buyer's solicitor will consult both of you and agree a completion date. However, possible completion dates are usually discussed earlier to allow services like removals to be arranged. Where are my title deeds? Your title deeds give proof of ownership of the property and will need to be transferred to the buyer as part of the conveyancing process. These are usually held by your mortgage lender, and it will be your solicitor's responsibility to obtain these. What do I have to leave in the property? You are not required to leave any furniture or furnishings in the property, but you may agree to include some as part of the negotiations of the sale so you should make sure that you check what you have agreed before you leave. When do I have to move out? The contract will specify the completion day agreed by you and the buyer. In most cases the seller is asked to vacate the property by 12pm and the buyer will be able to collect the keys from the estate agent from 2pm. Do I have to pay Capital Gains Tax? You may have to pay Capital Gains Tax if you make a profit (‘gain’) when you sell a property. In most cases your are only required to pay Capital Gains Tax if the property is not your main home. Book a valuation Contact your local branch My Move account Buy Find Property For Sale Land & New Homes Buying Calculators Rent Find Property To Rent Permitted payments Report a repair Sell Sell your property with us Book a property valuation Get an instant valuation Landlords Landlord services Service options & Fees Guides for landlords Services Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Helpful Links Careers Branches Privacy Notice Legal Information Accessibility Cookie Policy VAT Complaints Procedure Client Money Protection Anti Money Laundering information xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? JNP is a trading name, independently owned and operated under licence from LSLi Limited by AIG (KH) Ltd (company number 14772222), registered in England at 5 Brooklands Place, Brooklands Road, Sale, Cheshire, England, M33 3SD. Also trading as Fine & Country. We may refer you to recommended providers of ancillary services such as Conveyancing, Financial Services, Insurance and Surveying. We may receive a commission payment fee or other benefit (known as a referral fee) for recommending their services. You are not under any obligation to use the services of the recommended provider. The ancillary service provider may be an associated company of JNP.