Skip to main content Visit rightmove.co.uk Upper navigation Press Centre Careers Looking to buy or rent? Investor PLC PLC Home About us About us Rightmove is the UK’s number one property portal. Our aim is to create a simpler and more efficient property marketplace, making home moving easier in the UK. Read more About Us What we do Board & Leadership Our Strategy Values & Culture History Reference Block Rightmove 2022 Annual Report Read more Investors Investors “We are confident in our ability to deliver sustainable returns to shareholders” Andrew Fisher Chairman Read more Investors Annual Report Chair's statement Chief Executive's review Financial Review Financial Highlights Results, Reports & Presentations Share Price Centre Financial Calendar Regulatory News Shareholder Information AGM Dividends Significant Shareholders Registrars FAQs Analyst Consensus Alerts Investor Relations Contacts Protecting your shareholding Reference Block Rightmove 2022 Annual Report Read more Responsibility Responsibility Rightmove is committed to being a responsible corporate member of society and we believe that our approach to our employees, our marketplace (customers and consumers), the environment and wider society supports Rightmove’s success. Read more Responsibility Environment Social People Community Trusted Market place Governance Environmental and Social Data Risk Management Tax Strategy Gender Pay Gap Reporting Modern Slavery Statement Supplier Code of Conduct Legal Notices Reference Block Sustainability Report 2022 Read more Governance Governance Rightmove’s purpose to make home moving easier in the UK is achieved through the delivery of our strategy, supported by an effective system of governance throughout the Group. Read more Governance Corporate Governance Matters reserved for the Board Division of responsibilities between the Chair and CEO Responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director Stakeholder engagement Board Committees Remuneration Policy Board Diversity Reference Block Governance Framework Read more Contacts Search Search Search Search Search About us Home About us Rightmove’s purpose is to make home moving easier in the UK. We do this by creating a simpler and more efficient property marketplace. Rightmove is the UK’s number one property portal. Leadership The Board fosters an environment of entrepreneurial leadership and innovation, within a framework of responsible governance and risk management. Leadership Culture & Values At the heart of everything we do is Rightmove’s open, innovative and supportive culture, which reflects the values of our Board and Senior Leadership Team. Values & Culture Our strategy Rightmove’s strategy is to be the place consumers turn to first and engage with most, which provides an unrivalled audience and value for our customers, and we do this by innovating to create a simpler and more efficient market place and building great teams. Read our strategy History Rightmove was formed in 2000, floated on the London Stock Exchange in 2006 and is now a FTSE 100 company. See all timeline You may also like… What we do Read more Responsibility Read more Annual Report 2022 Read more Making home moving easier by creating a simpler and more efficient property marketplace. Quick links About us Media Investors Contact us Keep in touch If you would like to be alerted when a regulatory news item is added, please register with our alert service. Signup Annual Report 2022 Rightmove has published its 2022 Annual Report. You can download the Annual Report here Keep up to date on social media Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Rightmove plc is registered in England No 6426485, Registered office: 2 Caldecotte Lake Business Park, Caldecotte Lake Drive, Caldecotte, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, MK7 8LE Footer Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Modern Slavery Act Statement Site Map Cookie Settings Rightmove@2023