Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 15 1 15 1 Braehead Road, Thorntonhall, Glasgow, G74 See map Offers Over £1,250,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Reduced on 19/05/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×5 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features FULL VIDEO TOUR available. Please follow the link to view 5 bedrooms and 4 bathrooms. 6 spacious reception rooms including cinema and games room Gym and spa facilities Integrated triple garage Beautifully landscaped gardens EPC Rating = C Property description A stunning, 5 bedroom architect designed house with over 6000sq ft of accommodation, triple garage and landscaped gardens. Description 47 Braehead Road is a bespoke, architect-designed modern family home. The innovative and striking exterior is mirrored inside by bold lines and an incredible sense of space along with multiple windows bringing superb levels of natural light into the house. At approximately 6271 square feet, this is a seriously impressive property with exceptionally high quality finishes throughout. Arranged over three storeys the accommodation begins with a canopied entrance which leads into the immediately striking split level hallway with oak floor (echoed in many parts of the house). At the heart of the home is the fabulous dining kitchen/family room. Extending to 36 feet this is a wonderful space that combines a state-of-the-art kitchen – highlights of which include crafted light oak units contrasting with black granite worktops, a glass-topped breakfast bar and a five burner gas hob – with a relaxing sitting space and doors out to the decked balcony. The main sitting room is a sumptuous haven with a limestone fireplace housing a living flame gas fire, while the dining room is an elegant option for more formal entertaining. Completing the ground floor are two double bedrooms both with en suite shower rooms. Stairs lead down to the lower garden level where there is an enviable extensive wood floored games room. This versatile space has bifold doors into a gym and the fantastic in house spa and steam room. An authentic cinema room also sits on this floor as does the home office. A large hallway leads into the integral triple garage, utility room, WC, and a generous storage area which includes a wine cellar. The remaining bedrooms sit on the first floor where the landing becomes a room in itself, currently used as a light and comfortable open plan living/study area. The principal bedroom features in-built wardrobes and a luxurious wet room-style en suite shower room along with a fitted dressing room/bedroom 5 (ideal as a nursery). There is an additional double bedroom on this floor plus the super-stylish family bathroom which features a freestanding egg-shaped bath and separate over-sized walk in shower. This property benefits from a new boiler and energy-efficient heating system, double glazing, electric security gates, monitored alarm and a CCTV system. Outside, 47 Braehead Road is set within substantial landscaped garden grounds with security gates giving access to a monoblock driveway which provides plenty of parking. The rear garden is both private and low maintenance. Location 47 Braehead Road is situated within Thorntonhall, a delightful suburb located on the boundary between Glasgow and South Lanarkshire. It is regarded as one of the most prestigious and sought after locales in the Glasgow area with excellent access to Glasgow city centre and the motorway network, while retaining a charming atmosphere with tree-lined streets surrounded by beautiful countryside. A regular train service runs from Thorntonhall to Glasgow Central Station, while shopping and services can be found in East Kilbride (4 miles). Glasgow city centre is only 8 miles away offering all the amenities of a major city, with a vast array of shops, restaurants and leisure facilities. There are a number of golf courses in the area, and also a selection of local health clubs. Calderglen Country Park is also within easy reach. Private schooling is available on the southside of Glasgow at Hutchesons Grammar School, and co-educational private schooling is also available at Hamilton College, 10 miles away. Square Footage: 6,375 sq ft Directions From Glasgow, take the M8 westbound and at Junction 23, take the M77 signposted for Kilmarnock. At Junction 3, leave the M77 signposted for East Kilbride and turn left on the A726. Take the second exit at the roundabout on to Rouken Glen Road and continue until Eastwood Toll. Take the second exit, signposted East Kilbride and then continue for about 1 mile and take the second exit at the next roundabout. Drive through Clarkston and take the first exit at the mini roundabout and continue through Busby onto East Kilbride road. At Peel roundabout take the third exit signposted Thorntonhall onto Peel Road. Continue along Peel Road and take the first turn on the left onto Braehead Road. Additional Info Mains water, electricity and gas. Private drainage to treatment plant Brochures Web Details Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Rating Graph Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Braehead Road, Thorntonhall, Glasgow, G74 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Thorntonhall Station 0.3 miles Busby Station 0.9 miles Hairmyres Station 1.2 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Savills, Glasgow 163 West George Street, Glasgow, G2 2JJ Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise span the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa, and the Middle East. Our scale gives us wide-ranging specialist and local knowledge, and we take pride in providing best-in-class advice as we help individuals, businesses and institutions make better property decisions. Outstanding property We have been advising on Read more More properties from this agent Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Savills, Glasgow 163 West George Street, Glasgow, G2 2JJ More properties from this agent Call agent : 0141 673 1232 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference GLS220197. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Savills, Glasgow . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0141 673 1232 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho