Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 19 1 19 1 Palmerston Road, Edinburgh, EH9 See map Offers Over £2,000,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 06/06/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×5 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features 5 bedrooms 4 - 5 reception rooms 5 bathrooms Period Detached Garden Town/City Private Parking Property description Palmerston Road is the perfect family home. Located in the much sought after area of The Grange, the house combines wonderful entertaining space with five double bedrooms, a lovely garden and off street parking. The current owners have carried out several improvements to the house, resulting in an immaculate home that is ready for a family to move in to and immediately start enjoying. Most recently, they have added a one-bedroom annexe which provides contemporary secondary accommodation. This is ideal as guest accommodation, a granny annexe or as a vehicle to generate an income. The central hallway gives an immediate impression of grandeur and space, and this continues through the ground floor. Wonderful entertaining space is provided by the two formal public rooms which consist of the drawing room to the front and the dining room to the rear of the house. Both have lovely proportions and wooden floors. The recently created open plan kitchen/dining/living room is the hub of the house, with direct access to the garden. The kitchen is of a smart contemporary design with ample storage and an island/breakfast bar. There is a shower room adjacent to the kitchen. Ideal for families, there are two further living spaces accessed via the study. These rooms are flexible and could work equally well as bedrooms or home offices. Also on the ground floor is a guest bedroom with en suite bathroom, and a separate bathroom. Upstairs there is an attractive open landing which leads to all the main bedrooms. The principal bedroom is an impressive size and benefits from an immaculate bathroom with a free-standing bath and a large shower unit. There are three further double bedrooms and a shower room. The annexe, which can also be accessed from the main house via the dining room, consists of an open plan kitchen/living space and a double bedroom with en suite shower. Outside there is large private garden with patio areas, a lawn, and mature borders. There is a beautifully kept front garden as well as off street parking for several cars. The is planning permission in place for the creation of a stone-built garden room. The property offers all that most families could look for in a home. Beautifully proportioned rooms in excellent condition and the benefit of a prime address, large garden, period features and secondary accommodation. Palmerston Road is an attractive, popular tree-lined street with handsome period villas set in one of Edinburgh's most desirable residential areas, approximately 1.5 miles from Edinburgh's bustling city centre. The property lies on the south side of the city with easy access to the city by-pass leading in turn to Edinburgh International Airport and many arterial roads to the West, North and South. There are excellent local shops, bistros, and bars in Marchmont, Bruntsfield and Morningside as well as Waitrose, Marks & Spencer, and Tesco supermarkets. In addition, there is the King's Theatre and Dominion Cinema. Local sporting facilities include a number of golf courses, and there are pleasant walks in the open spaces of the nearby Blackford Hill. First class schools include George Watsons, George Heriots and Merchiston Castle. The property is within the catchment areas for the highly regarded Sciennes Primary School and James Gillespie's High School. Brochures More Details 19 Palmerston Road - 19 Palmerston Road - Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. Generated EPC Graph. Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Palmerston Road, Edinburgh, EH9 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Edinburgh Waverley Station 1.2 miles Haymarket Station 1.2 miles Slateford Station 2.1 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Knight Frank, Edinburgh 80 Queen Street, Edinburgh, EH2 4NF About us About us We are passionate about property. Our foundations are built on supporting clients in one of the most significant decisions they'll make in their lifetime. As your partners in property, we act with integrity and are here to help you achieve the very best price for your home in the quickest possible time. We offer a range of services for your property requirements. If you are selling, buying or letting a home, or you need some frank advice and insight on th Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Knight Frank, Edinburgh 80 Queen Street, Edinburgh, EH2 4NF More properties from this agent Call agent : 0131 381 0405 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference EDC110060. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Knight Frank, Edinburgh . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0131 381 0405 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho