Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. Find out more Manage cookies Allow all cookies Manage Cookies Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. For more information about how we and our partners use cookies on our site, see our Cookie Policy Strictly necessary These cookies are necessary for the Savills website to function. Examples of this include: setting your privacy preferences, logging in to your Savills account, or filling in forms. Though these cookies cannot be switched off, you can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but please be aware that this will stop some parts of the Savills website from functioning as intended. Find out more about strictly necessary cookies here . Always allowed Functional cookies These cookies are used to enhance the performance of the Savills website, as without them certain functions of the website may not be available. While they are not vital for the website to run, they allow us to remember important information and your preferences such as previous location searches. Find out more about functional cookies here . Allow Targeting & tracking These cookies record your activity on the Savills website and our partners may use that information to show you adverts that they think you will be most interested in when you visit other websites. We may also use information recorded by these cookies to see how well these adverts are performing. Find out more about targeting and tracking cookies here . Allow Save and close Allow all cookies Location and Language Selection Close United Kingdom Location Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe United Kingdom Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe Language English English English Book a valuation Search Close Site Search: Search My Account Menu Menu > Find a property > Market your property > Find a service > Why Savills > Insight & Opinion > Contact us Close Find a property Find a property Whether buying a townhouse or selling a country cottage, leasing corporate office space or renting farmland, our experts make it their business to understand your needs and help you find the right property. Search for a property Residential Search for a residential property Buy a property in London Rent a property in London New homes for sale Properties in Europe Properties in the Caribbean Properties in the US Properties in Asia Pacific Properties in The Alps Farms & Estates Search for rural property Farms for sale Estates for sale Equestrian property for sale Commercial Search for a commercial property Offices to lease in the UK Development land for sale in the UK Retail properties Industrial properties to lease Leisure properties for sale Hotels for sale Flexible office space Investment properties for sale Residential investment Student housing investment Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert What's your property worth? Get expert advice for residential, commercial or rural property, grounded in our experience and knowledge of local, regional and international markets. Arrange a market appraisal Property auctions As one of the UK’s leading auction houses, we offer a large selection of residential and commercial property for sale by auction. More Information Where are residential property sales holding up the strongest? Residential Sales 31 May 2023 We forecast that limited mortgage availability and high interest rates would see home buying activity levels fall in 2023. Read this article Market your property Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an agent Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Market your property Whether you're planning to sell, rent or are undecided, we have an expert who can help. More Information Selling a Residential Property Letting a Residential Property Auctioning a Property Selling a Mews Property Selling New-Build Property Selling International Property Selling a Farm Selling a Fishing Beat Selling a Forest or Woodland Selling a Quarry or Waste Management Facility Selling a Shoot Selling an Estate Selling Country Property Selling Equestrian Property Selling Waterfront Property Interior, Furnishing and Refurbishment Services Private Office Selling Commercial Property Selling Healthcare Property Selling Leisure or Trade-Related Property Real Estate Insights Podcast: Impacts 2023: what is the purpose of property? Research 7 June 2023 Our latest podcast discusses how financial, environmental and social purposes intersect, and how they can be measured, as well as unveiling some of the key findings to emerge from this year’s Impacts publication. Read this article Find a service Find a service Savills offers a wide range of specialist services from financial and investment advice to valuation, planning and property management. More Information Asset Management Auctions Buying or Selling Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Private Office Property Management Research Savills Earth (ESG Consulting) Valuation Browse by sector Our services cover a broad range of property sectors. More Information Affordable Housing Auctions Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food & Farming Forestry Healthcare High St/In Town Retail Hotels Industrial & Logistics Infrastructure Leisure Marine Minerals & Commodities Mixed Use Office & Business Space Operational Capital Markets Out of Town Retail Public Sector Pubs, Bars & Restaurants Residential Residential Investment & Development Residential Development Sales Retail Rural Science & Technology Senior Living Serviced Offices Shopping Centres Trade-Related Sports Venues Student Accommodation Telecoms Utilities Visitor Attractions Vineyards Waste Management Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Find your nearest office With over 40,000 people working across more than 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Why Savills Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise spans the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East. More Information How we work Our integrity, honesty and professionalism is what gives our clients, colleagues, investors and business partners the confidence to work with us. More Information Innovation and technology Savills is at the forefront of exploring and developing new capabilities, bringing together people and technology to push boundaries and take real estate to a new level. More Information Awards Over the years we have been recognised as ‘best in class’ in a diverse range of disciplines. More Information Sustainability & ESG Savills UK sustainability strategy aims to achieve a positive impact on the environment and society, whilst maintaining robust governance measures. More Information Investor relations Savills Plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange within the FTSE250 index. Our annual reports and investor updates can be found online. Visit our Investor Relations site Diversity & Inclusion Savills is committed to eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity amongst our workforce. More information Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion is our hub for residential, commercial and rural articles and research from experts offering industry-leading advice and analysis. Research In-depth research and analysis into property market trends, forecasts from our specialist research teams, and market-leading commentary to help you make the right property decisions. Browse our market research Subscribe to Savills Research Residential reports Residential forecasts Office reports Retail reports Rural reports Residential property prices and trends ESG Research Industrial reports Residential development & investment Savills Indices Research services Webinars The Savills Blog The latest UK and international property market news and opinions, plus helpful guides and top tips from our renowned industry experts. Read the Savills Blog Savills News Up-to-the-minute news from our press teams providing the latest developments within Savills, and across the property industry. Read our press releases Savills Podcasts Keep yourself informed on the ‘real’ behind the real estate headlines, our podcast brings you engaging and insightful discussion with experts across our global business on the issues that matter most in property. Listen to the podcasts Portfolio by Savills Portfolio by Savills seamlessly blends the latest trends, inspirational lifestyle content, and the world’s finest properties with the expert insight and analysis you would expect from Savills. Portfolio has property at its heart, and we’d like you to be part of it. Explore Portfolio by Savills Contact us Find an office With over 40,000 people working across 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Our offices by region London East of England East Midlands North East North West South East South West West Midlands Yorkshire & The Humber Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Channel Islands Find a person Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Careers with Savills At Savills, our most valuable resource is our people. We are known for our positive, entrepreneurial culture, and for attracting some of the most innovative, dedicated and knowledgeable people in the business. More Information Current Vacancies General enquiries We're here to provide you with more information, answer any questions you may have, or connect you with the right people to help with your needs. Use our general enquiry form to get in touch today. Speak to the team 6 of the best...Former rectories Residential Sales 9 June 2023 From the recently renovated to the classically stylish, featured here are a few of our favourite examples currently on the market. Read this article > Home Property Management Details Contacts & Related Articles Contact the team Whatever the type and wherever the property, Savills experts can help to manage it. Our vision is simple – to be the best forward-thinking provider of property management services in all of our markets, giving clients and end users the highest level of service at all times. We offer property management expertise across all areas of real estate, at every stage of the development life cycle. Adding value to assets is our primary focus, along with providing real insight and forward-thinking advice from our flexible team of global experts Our customer-first approach combined with an in-depth knowledge of property and a global presence enables us to deliver best-in-class property management services to clients, and to offer an enhanced experience for occupiers, visitors, shoppers and residents. Experts in Property Management Nicholas Herward Executive Director Property Management Head Office London +44 (0) 207 877 4728 Contact Now Rupert Clark Director Estate Management Petworth +44 (0) 1798 345 999 Contact Now Related Articles Industrial and Logistics Savills ProgrammE and Cost Sentiment Commercial Leasing Market in Minutes: Aberdeen Occupational Office Data Q1 2023 Retail Spotlight: UK Grocery Report – 2023 Services Property Management Block Management From day-to-day management to advising developers on the design of communal areas, we take care of anything and everything relating to apartment blocks and their communal areas. Read more Property Management Build to Rent & Private Rental Sector Management We work within the private rental sector, delivering a bespoke service from design to management of mid to large-scale residential developments. Read more Property Management Business Space Management Working closely in line with our clients’ business goals and objectives, we provide a focused business space management service with current market trends at the heart of our strategy. Read more Property Management Commercial Asset Management We are responsible for providing strategic consultancy to clients, to help them unlock value and potential from their commercial property holdings. Read more Property Management Commercial Property Management Our specialist teams manage property in all commercial sectors covering retail, business space, leisure and industrial. Working all over the UK, we make sure we cover all bases, whether that’s day-to-day maintenance, financial reporting, staff employment, or marketing strategies. Read more Property Management Commercialisation We develop bespoke strategies to maximise commercial income for our clients as well as focus on added-value opportunities. Read more Property Management Destination & Place Marketing We are Savills boutique marketing agency, dedicated to creating and delivering inspired, exciting and successful campaigns across the retail and leisure sectors in the UK. Read more Property Management Development Set Up The thinking about how a scheme will ultimately be managed has to start long before the practical completion. Development set up is the vital link between the development, asset and management teams, ensuring a seamless approach to delivering an effective and operationally efficient end development from as early as planning Stage 2. Read more Property Management Energy Bureau Our bureau service offers a full range of energy services, including procurement, optimisation and compliance packages. Read more Property Management Energy Optimisation Energy optimisation brings together the full suite of Savills energy services under one highly efficient and overarching umbrella. Read more Property Management Engineering & Design Consultancy We are a specialist building services consultancy that provides technical advice from acquisition through to management and disposal of all assets within the built environment. Read more Property Management Estate Management Our national team of 320 provides a comprehensive estate management service, from ad hoc advice to full management. We work closely with owners of all sizes of estates, whether they comprise 50 acres or thousands of acres, helping to efficiently manage their business. Read more Property Management Farm Management Our hands-on consultants provide a bespoke farm management service to all types of clients across the UK. Read more Property Management Forestry Management Trees require ongoing management throughout their lifecycle, from planting through to felling. We combine market-leading forestry expertise with independent advice on how to increase timber quality and value, identify new opportunities and maximise returns for our clients. Read more Property Management Health & Safety Risk Management Our health & safety team is a specialist compliance and risk management consultancy, providing expert advice on all aspects of property management. Read more Property Management Leisure Property Management On behalf of our clients we manage single let, leisure parks and in-town leisure schemes, providing all aspects of property management services. Read more Property Management Mobilisation The mobilisation team ensures Savills clients’ properties transition in and out of our management in the most efficient, timely and transparent way.From day-to-day management to advising developers on the design of communal areas, we take care of anything and everything relating to apartment blocks and their communal areas. Read more Property Management Operations Support & Facilities Management We specialise in providing operational support throughout the UK to the entire network of properties we are responsible for. That support runs 24/7, 365 days a year. It includes the helpdesk, a centralised procurement function, and a network of regional facilities managers. Read more Property Management Out of Town Retail Management We manage retail and shopping parks on behalf of landlords, working to maximise asset value for our clients. Read more Property Management Portfolio Estate Management Our constant goal is to maximise investment returns for clients through proactive management of their residential and mixed-use portfolios in central London. Read more Property Management Prime Office Property Management Our business space specialists manage all types of prime office buildings in the UK and Europe, through a specialist service known as Savills RISE. Read more Property Management Procurement The procurement team efficiently manages all third party contracts of our property management clients, ensuring quality of service, adherence to governance and risk, and economies of scale. Read more Property Management Property Management Due Diligence We give clients a tailored, in-depth analysis of the property management aspects of due diligence on investment purchases and sales. Read more Property Management Property Management Finance Our team manages finance and data for both landlord investment portfolios and corporate occupiers, ensuring professional and efficient administration. Read more Property Management Property Management Research & Insights Our research and insights experts provide added-value to the property management teams. Read more Property Management Reception & Concierge Services Our reception and concierge services provide outstanding front of house facilities, taking responsibility for the all-important interface between building and its visitor. Read more Property Management Residential Property Management We deliver advice, consultancy and management across all types of residential property for a client base encompassing institutions, developers, investors and high net worth individuals. Read more Property Management Retirement Living Management We manage purpose-built retirement communities and their amenity facilities. Our team works closely with facilities such as restaurants and club rooms to give the best quality lifestyle to the over-55s. Read more Property Management Shopping Centre Management Our focus is on the day-to-day management of shopping centres, ensuring shoppers spend time and money in the centres. Read more Property Management Sporting Management & Consultancy Working across the UK, our sporting experts provide management advice and guidance on all aspects of shooting, fishing and deer stalking. We deal with every kind of sporting estate, from grouse moors to low ground and wild bird shoots, and from fishing to stalking. In each case we customise our advice and services to the specific needs of landowners, estate employees, professionals and consultants, to maximise the potential of all types of sporting property, in terms of capital, income or total returns. Read more Property Management Sustainability We work with clients to deliver structured forward-thinking and inspiring strategies to succeed in key sustainability and corporate responsibility objectives. Read more Property Management Telecom & Fibre Management Our telecom and fibre service team of specialists act for land and property owners across the UK. Read more Property Management Waste Management Our team provides specialist property advice to the waste management industries, working on behalf of land owners, operators, local authorities and corporate clients. Read more Property Management Workforce Management Our team works across all aspects of the HR function, and develops people strategies that are strengthened by the company’s core values. We are proud to have IIP accreditation where we have achieved silver status and exceeded benchmarks across many criteria. Read more Subscribe to receive exclusive news and listings free Send Success! You are now subscribed to the Savills mailing list. Sorry, something went wrong. Residential Property For sale Property for sale Property for sale Scotland Property for sale England Property for sale Wales Property for sale in London Help to Buy in London Help to Buy in UK New developments for sale in England New developments for sale in London New developments for sale in Scotland For rent Property to rent in UK Property to rent Scotland Property to rent England Property to rent Wales Property to rent in London New developments to rent in England New developments to rent in London New developments to rent in Scotland Commercial Property For sale Commercial property for sale Development property for sale Industrial properties for sale Leisure properties for sale Offices for sale Hotels for sale Land for sale Industrial property for sale England Hotels for sale in England Offices for sale in England Flexible office space For rent Office property to let Industrial property to let Pubs to let Rural Property Rural property for sale Farms for sale Equestrian property for sale Country estates for sale International Property for sale in Europe Property for sale in France Property for sale in the US Property for sale in Italy Property for sale in Australia Offices All UK offices UK offices by county London Offices Find an office worldwide Services & Sectors Services Asset Management Buying or Selling Property Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Property Management Valuation Sectors Affordable Housing Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food and Farming Healthcare Hotels Industrial And logistics Infrastructure and Transport Leisure Minerals and Commodities Office & Business Space Public Sector Residential Retail Rural Senior Living Serviced Offices Student Accommodation Telecoms Trade-Related & Specialist Sectors Utilities Waste Management More Information Sitemap RSS Feeds Accessibility Feedback TDS Explained Provision of Services Slavery & Human Trafficking Terms & Conditions Privacy & Cookies Client Money Protection Scotland Letting Agent Code of Practice Help to Buy Calculator Residential Stamp Duty Calculator Commercial Stamp Duty Calculator Rental Yield Calculator Land & Buildings Transaction Tax (LBTT) Calculator ESG at Savills Fees & Charges Residential Tenant Fees & Charges Residential Landlord Fees & Charges Talk to Us Find a Savills Office Find a Savills Employee Book a Property Valuation Careers with Savills Ask a Question Investor Relations All content © copyright Savills. All rights reserved. Savills plc, incorporated and registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD. Registered number: 2122174. Savills plc is a holding company, some of whose subsidiaries are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and some of whose subsidiaries are regulated by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). Find us on social Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Facebook YouTube