Gluesticks Blog About About Me Contact Me Terms and Privacy Policy Sewing My Book Kids Sewing Projects All Sewing Projects Crafts Kids Crafts Paper Crafts Free Printables All Crafts Holidays Christmas Halloween Patriotic Holidays Easter St. Patrick’s Day Valentine’s Day Gift Ideas Teacher Gifts All Gift Ideas Parties Home Home Decor Projects Cleaning & Organizing Gardening Motherhood Recipes Kids in the Kitchen Appetizer Recipes Bread Recipes Dessert Recipes Cake Recipes Cookie Recipes All Dessert Main Dish Recipes Slow Cooker Sides & Salads Holiday Recipes All Recipes November 6, 2018 By Brandy 6 Comments Home » Sewing 30 Fleece Sewing and No-Sew Projects to Make! Filed Under: Craft Tutorials , Kids Sewing Projects , Sewing This post was most recently updated on February 9th, 2021 Fleece is such a great fabric to work with. Here are 30 fleece sewing projects from some of my favorite sewing blogs on the web. I’ve even included a nice assortment of no-sew projects to make, too! You’ll find blankets, mittens, pillows, stuffed animals, accessories and more! So many great gift ideas for kids to make or receive. One of the first fleece projects that I ever made were these fleece hats from Martha Stewart. I have such fond memories of my little boys wearing these when we lived in Alaska! Hand Warmer Muff Tutorial My latest fleece sewing project! I made each of my girls a hand warmer muff and now their friends at school want them too! So simple, cozy and perfect for winter. Fleece Pom Pom Throws from It’s Always Autumn Fleece blankets are so simple to make! I love the added pom pom detailing on this one! No-Sew Dog Bed Toby loves his no-sew dog bed! It has standard pillows inside and opens up to remove the pillows for easy washing! Cowl Neck Fleece Poncho (Double Layered!) Make a darling cowl neck (which doubles as a hood) poncho for fall. My girls love their ponchos. A little blanket for their shoulders. Here are 2 more easy fleece projects that you can find in my kids’ sewing book, Sew With Me 60 sewing projects for kids divided into 5 chapters and 3 sewing levels. There’s something for everyone! 10-Minute Teddy Bear Sleeping Bag A great fleece sewing project for kids to make. This size is perfect for any 16-18″ teddy bear (Build a Bear size!) Unicorn Fleece Pillow from Bugaboo City My girls would love a unicorn pillow! How cute is this? Fleece Hat Tutorial A great basic hat tutorial for making fleece hats in many sizes! No-Sew Fleece Poncho Make a fleece poncho in 10 minutes, no sewing required!! The ruffle is a cute detail (sewn on), but optional. No Sew Rainbow Fleece Scarf from The Decorated Cookie So bright and colorful and easy to make. Another no-sew fleece project to make with kids! 5-Minute Hand Warmers A sweet little fleece sewing project for kids! Make hand warmers with rice inside that heat in the microwave. No Sew Floor Pillow from The Kitchen and the Cave What a fun reading nook! Make a no-sew floor pillow for reading, watching movies, and naps. No Sew Patchwork Fleece Blanket from Powerful Mothering Warm, cozy, and easy to make! Another no-sew fleece blanket idea. Crib Mattress Dog Bed Crib mattresses make GREAT dog beds (indoor or outdoor)! Here is a tutorial for making a fleece cover. Stuffed Fox from Stitched by Crystal Seriously? SO cute. Make a pair of stuffed foxes to give as a gift! Fleece Polar Bear from Fluffmonger Fleece Lined Mittens With Pattern from ikat bag Fleece gloves with a cozy flannel lining. A cute and practical fleece sewing project. No Sew Fleece Scarf from the Soccer Mom Blog A rainbow of colors and fleece scraps combine in this colorful no-sew fleece scarf. 3-Step Fleece Pillowcases I’ve made these fleece pillowcases for all of my nieces and nephews as Christmas gifts in the past. They are always a hit and are SO easy to make. Reusable Swiffer Refills from A Few Shortcuts Save money by making reusable Swiffer refills from fleece! Warm Bed Buddy Rice Bags Filled with rice, these warm bed buddies can be heated in the microwave before bedtime. A great little cuddle companion. Football Fleece Hat from Make It And Love It A basic fleece hat pattern that can be turned into a football hat. No-Sew Scarf Make a scarf in 2 minutes! No sewing involved. A great scrap fleece project. Fleece Bunk Bed Book Caddy Hang a book caddy on the bed to hold books! Easy Monogrammed Fleece Blanket Simple fleece blankets with monogram detailing. What a great birthday gift idea for kids. Fleece Arm Warmers from Craft Your Happiness My girls would love these fleece arm warmers! 4 Ways to Make a Fleece Blanket from A Girl and a Glue Gun No-Sew blankets are so much fun to make. Here are 4 ways to finish off the edges. I like the yarn tassels. Fleece Ear Warmers from At Second Street Another sweet fleece sewing project! I love the rose detailing on these ear warmers. More Posts Like This About Brandy Welcome! I'm Brandy, mother to 5 darling kiddos and a cute black lab named Toby. My husband is in the Coast Guard so we've lived all over the place, turning each house into a home. I love baking, sewing, making cute things with my kids, and sharing what I've learned with all of you! Disclaimer: I am a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for me to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com without any additional cost to you. As an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases. Previous Post: « Hand Warmer Muff Sewing Tutorial: Cozy Fleece Next Post: Reindeer Thumbprint Ornament for Kids » Reader Interactions Comments Brooke Thibault says July 9, 2019 at 10:20 pm I’m looking for a no sew fleece project for my students to make for young chemo patients. Do you have a no sew fleece hat pattern? Thanks for your help Brooke Thibault Reply Brandy says July 10, 2019 at 4:59 pm Hi Brooke, I don’t have one, but I have seen this one around and it looks simple enough! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oXYhMYqy1_4 Reply Patricia Wang says September 14, 2019 at 8:37 am Brooke and Brandy, If you are still looking for that no sew fleece hat idea, I have one. I cut three rounded-edged triangles (for a kid’s hat, four for an adult.) They were about 6″ at the bottom, and about 9″ long. First, cut the 6″X9″ rectangles. Then make a pattern that is 6″ wide at the bottom, 6″ wide at the 7.5″ mark, then it curves to the top to make a curved sided “triangle.” On that curved side, cut notches like you would for a no-sew blanket. About 1.5″ deep and .75″ wide. Make sure that all the sides are cut the same. Tie the three pieces together. Reply Brandy says September 14, 2019 at 12:30 pm Yay, thank you Patricia! Reply Melodie Mangers says February 9, 2021 at 2:38 pm I love the things you’ve made. What I love the most is the unicorn ear warmers. When I clicked to get the pattern, it wasn’t the same one. I like the one you have in the picture. Do you have that pattern to share? I have 3 granddaughters who LOVE unicorns and I would love to make them the earwarmers in the picture. We are having an unusually cold winter. It was -18 this morning and its to get colder by the weekend. Not to mention all the snow we’ve received. Sounds like another round of half of foot of snow on its way this weekend as well. Thank you for sharing your talents. I don’t know how you do it with all your kiddos. God Bless You! Reply Brandy says February 9, 2021 at 9:44 pm Hi Melodie! Thank you for such a sweet comment! And what lucky grand kids you have to have a grandma who loves to sew for them. So I can’t seem to find the tutorial for the unicorn headband anymore! Every time I found the image it linked back to the other one (with the ear flaps). I’m not sure if the blogger updated the tutorial and got rid of the old one, or what is going on! I’m sorry! I’m going to remove that photo from my post so that others don’t have that same problem. Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Recipe Rating Recipe Rating Comment * Name * Email * Notify me of new posts by email. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Primary Sidebar I'm Brandy! I live in Virginia with my husband, 5 kids, black lab, and chickens. I love to craft and bake and share it all with you! MORE ABOUT ME Follow Along My Amazon Store Get My Best Projects and Recipes! My Sewing Book for Kids! Bonus Guide Home Website Accessibility My Book Privacy Policy Copyright © 2023 Log in About About Me Contact Me Terms and Privacy Policy Sewing My Book Kids Sewing Projects All Sewing Projects Crafts Kids Crafts Paper Crafts Free Printables All Crafts Holidays Christmas Halloween Patriotic Holidays Easter St. Patrick’s Day Valentine’s Day Gift Ideas Teacher Gifts All Gift Ideas Parties Home Home Decor Projects Cleaning & Organizing Gardening Motherhood Recipes Kids in the Kitchen Appetizer Recipes Bread Recipes Dessert Recipes Cake Recipes Cookie Recipes All Dessert Main Dish Recipes Slow Cooker Sides & Salads Holiday Recipes All Recipes