Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. Find out more Manage cookies Allow all cookies Manage Cookies Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. For more information about how we and our partners use cookies on our site, see our Cookie Policy Strictly necessary These cookies are necessary for the Savills website to function. Examples of this include: setting your privacy preferences, logging in to your Savills account, or filling in forms. Though these cookies cannot be switched off, you can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but please be aware that this will stop some parts of the Savills website from functioning as intended. Find out more about strictly necessary cookies here . Always allowed Functional cookies These cookies are used to enhance the performance of the Savills website, as without them certain functions of the website may not be available. While they are not vital for the website to run, they allow us to remember important information and your preferences such as previous location searches. Find out more about functional cookies here . Allow Targeting & tracking These cookies record your activity on the Savills website and our partners may use that information to show you adverts that they think you will be most interested in when you visit other websites. We may also use information recorded by these cookies to see how well these adverts are performing. Find out more about targeting and tracking cookies here . Allow Save and close Allow all cookies Location and Language Selection Close United Kingdom Location Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe United Kingdom Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe Language English English English Book a valuation Search Close Site Search: Search My Account Menu Menu > Find a property > Market your property > Find a service > Why Savills > Insight & Opinion > Contact us Close Find a property Find a property Whether buying a townhouse or selling a country cottage, leasing corporate office space or renting farmland, our experts make it their business to understand your needs and help you find the right property. Search for a property Residential Search for a residential property Buy a property in London Rent a property in London New homes for sale Properties in Europe Properties in the Caribbean Properties in the US Properties in Asia Pacific Properties in The Alps Farms & Estates Search for rural property Farms for sale Estates for sale Equestrian property for sale Commercial Search for a commercial property Offices to lease in the UK Development land for sale in the UK Retail properties Industrial properties to lease Leisure properties for sale Hotels for sale Flexible office space Investment properties for sale Residential investment Student housing investment Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert What's your property worth? Get expert advice for residential, commercial or rural property, grounded in our experience and knowledge of local, regional and international markets. Arrange a market appraisal Property auctions As one of the UK’s leading auction houses, we offer a large selection of residential and commercial property for sale by auction. More Information Where are residential property sales holding up the strongest? Residential Sales 31 May 2023 We forecast that limited mortgage availability and high interest rates would see home buying activity levels fall in 2023. Read this article Market your property Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an agent Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Market your property Whether you're planning to sell, rent or are undecided, we have an expert who can help. More Information Selling a Residential Property Letting a Residential Property Auctioning a Property Selling a Mews Property Selling New-Build Property Selling International Property Selling a Farm Selling a Fishing Beat Selling a Forest or Woodland Selling a Quarry or Waste Management Facility Selling a Shoot Selling an Estate Selling Country Property Selling Equestrian Property Selling Waterfront Property Interior, Furnishing and Refurbishment Services Private Office Selling Commercial Property Selling Healthcare Property Selling Leisure or Trade-Related Property Real Estate Insights Podcast: Impacts 2023: what is the purpose of property? Research 7 June 2023 Our latest podcast discusses how financial, environmental and social purposes intersect, and how they can be measured, as well as unveiling some of the key findings to emerge from this year’s Impacts publication. Read this article Find a service Find a service Savills offers a wide range of specialist services from financial and investment advice to valuation, planning and property management. More Information Asset Management Auctions Buying or Selling Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Private Office Property Management Research Savills Earth (ESG Consulting) Valuation Browse by sector Our services cover a broad range of property sectors. More Information Affordable Housing Auctions Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food & Farming Forestry Healthcare High St/In Town Retail Hotels Industrial & Logistics Infrastructure Leisure Marine Minerals & Commodities Mixed Use Office & Business Space Operational Capital Markets Out of Town Retail Public Sector Pubs, Bars & Restaurants Residential Residential Investment & Development Residential Development Sales Retail Rural Science & Technology Senior Living Serviced Offices Shopping Centres Trade-Related Sports Venues Student Accommodation Telecoms Utilities Visitor Attractions Vineyards Waste Management Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Find your nearest office With over 40,000 people working across more than 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Why Savills Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise spans the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East. More Information How we work Our integrity, honesty and professionalism is what gives our clients, colleagues, investors and business partners the confidence to work with us. More Information Innovation and technology Savills is at the forefront of exploring and developing new capabilities, bringing together people and technology to push boundaries and take real estate to a new level. More Information Awards Over the years we have been recognised as ‘best in class’ in a diverse range of disciplines. More Information Sustainability & ESG Savills UK sustainability strategy aims to achieve a positive impact on the environment and society, whilst maintaining robust governance measures. More Information Investor relations Savills Plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange within the FTSE250 index. Our annual reports and investor updates can be found online. Visit our Investor Relations site Diversity & Inclusion Savills is committed to eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity amongst our workforce. More information Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion is our hub for residential, commercial and rural articles and research from experts offering industry-leading advice and analysis. Research In-depth research and analysis into property market trends, forecasts from our specialist research teams, and market-leading commentary to help you make the right property decisions. Browse our market research Subscribe to Savills Research Residential reports Residential forecasts Office reports Retail reports Rural reports Residential property prices and trends ESG Research Industrial reports Residential development & investment Savills Indices Research services Webinars The Savills Blog The latest UK and international property market news and opinions, plus helpful guides and top tips from our renowned industry experts. Read the Savills Blog Savills News Up-to-the-minute news from our press teams providing the latest developments within Savills, and across the property industry. Read our press releases Savills Podcasts Keep yourself informed on the ‘real’ behind the real estate headlines, our podcast brings you engaging and insightful discussion with experts across our global business on the issues that matter most in property. Listen to the podcasts Portfolio by Savills Portfolio by Savills seamlessly blends the latest trends, inspirational lifestyle content, and the world’s finest properties with the expert insight and analysis you would expect from Savills. Portfolio has property at its heart, and we’d like you to be part of it. Explore Portfolio by Savills Contact us Find an office With over 40,000 people working across 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Our offices by region London East of England East Midlands North East North West South East South West West Midlands Yorkshire & The Humber Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Channel Islands Find a person Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Careers with Savills At Savills, our most valuable resource is our people. We are known for our positive, entrepreneurial culture, and for attracting some of the most innovative, dedicated and knowledgeable people in the business. More Information Current Vacancies General enquiries We're here to provide you with more information, answer any questions you may have, or connect you with the right people to help with your needs. Use our general enquiry form to get in touch today. Speak to the team 6 of the best...Former rectories Residential Sales 9 June 2023 From the recently renovated to the classically stylish, featured here are a few of our favourite examples currently on the market. Read this article > Home Privacy & Cookies Details Contacts & Related Content Savills is committed to ensuring that your privacy is protected and our use of your personal information is governed by this Privacy Notice. On this site, “Savills”, “our” and “we” each mean all the UK companies in the Savills plc group (including but not limited to Savills plc, Savills (UK) Limited, Savills Management Resources Limited, Prime Purchase Limited, Savills Advisory Services Limited, Savills Capital Advisors Limited and Savills Investment Management LLP and their respective subsidiaries) which collect and use your information in the manner set out in this Privacy Notice. Any reference to “you” or “your” refers to anyone whose personal information we process. 1. Introduction Our use of your personal data will be governed by this Privacy Notice. Savills is a controller for the personal information that it collects and uses about you. We will treat your personal information as confidential and in accordance with applicable data protection legislation and your personal information will only be shared with others in accordance with this Privacy Notice. This Privacy Notice explains; What personal information is How we collect your personal information The types of personal information we collect How we use your personal information The legal basis for processing your personal information How we share your personal information How long we keep your personal information How we keep your personal information secure Overseas transfers of your personal information Your rights in relation to your personal information How to make complaints and how to contact us If there are any changes to the way in which your personal information is used, this Privacy Notice will be updated. 2. What is personal information Personal information is any information that tells us something about you. This could include information such as name, contact details, date of birth, bank account details or any information about your needs or circumstances which would allow us to identify you. Some personal information is classified as "special" data under data protection legislation. This includes information relating to health, racial or ethnic origin, religious beliefs or political opinions and sexual orientation. This information is more sensitive and we need to have further justifications for collecting, storing and using this type of personal information. There are also additional restrictions on the circumstances in which we are permitted to collect and use criminal conviction data. Any references to personal information in this privacy notice will include personal data, and where relevant, special categories of personal data. 3. What personal information do we collect? We will collect your full name and contact details (such as phone number, email address and postal address) from you whenever you engage with us. In addition, if we are providing a service to you, or on your behalf, where we are required to do so by law, we will collect information relating to your identity, which will be at least one form of photographic identification (such as a passport, a driving licence or an identification card) and one form of documentation with proof of your place of residence (such as a recent utility bill). We will also confirm whether you have any relatives or close connections working at Savills so that we can consider potential conflict of interests and if identified how to manage these, in accordance with our statutory and regulatory obligations. Depending on the service that we provide to you (or on your behalf) we may also collect additional personal information as detailed below; Buy, Sell, Let, Rent If you are buying, selling or letting a property through us; We will collect a contact telephone number to get in touch with you about organising viewings and updating you on any offers received or rental applications for your property. Where you have enquired about buying a specific property, we will use your contact details to respond which may include us sending you alternative properties to help with your search. Where you are not the legal owner of the property we will request details from you as to your ability to sell or let the property such as a Power of Attorney, Guardianship Order or Grant of Probate. Where you engage with Savills, we may collect information required to identify you to meet anti-money laundering and counter terrorist financing requirements. If we are dealing with an entity such as a company, trust or charity, we may need to obtain personal information for the beneficiaries of the entity and those in a position of control. This will include, but is not limited to, identity and address documents. We may also need to collect information on other individuals who have an interest in the property who are not considered to be our customers. We will collect your bank account details to arrange onward payment of rent due to you. Where we are working alongside third parties such as solicitors, developers, joint or multi agents, we may need to share these documents on the basis of legitimate interests. If you wish to purchase a property we are listing for sale where you have specifically provided us with these, we will collect personal information relating to any specific access requirements you may have in relation to a property so that we can find a property that is suitable for your needs. We will also collect personal information required to source a property for you and, where required, negotiate the purchase of a property on your behalf. If you wish to rent a property we are listing; Where you have enquired about renting a specific property, we will use your contact details to respond which may include us sending you alternative properties to help with your search Specific access requirements so that we can find a property that is suitable for your needs Your bank / building / similar account details to allow us to manage an approved tenancy deposit account for you and to set up your rental payments. If you are a tenant renting under the 'Right to Rent' scheme we will collect details of your Biometric residence card, your immigration status document and/or your birth certificate to carry out our required checks under this scheme We may also need to collect specific identity documents from you for the purpose of preventing and detecting crime, fraud or money laundering. Property Management · Where we engage with you to manage property on your behalf we will ask for additional emergency contact information in case we need to get in touch with you outside of working hours or in the event there is a matter requiring your urgent attention. · Where you engage us for portfolio management services we will share your personal information with third party lenders as is necessary to allow us to fulfil our obligations to you and to properly manage and advise you on your property investments. · Where you are a tenant in a building managed by Savills, we may need to share your personal information with the property owner, but will only do so where we have considered your own rights first. · Where we operate CCTV in a property, we may capture your image which would constitute your personal data. Investment Management Where you engage with Savills Investment Management LLP or one of its subsidiaries as an individual investor we will collect information required to identify you to meet anti-money laundering and counter terrorist financing requirements. If the investor is an entity such as a company, trust or charity, we may need to collect personal information about the controllers and the beneficiaries of the entity. Other If you subscribe to receive research, news or other market updates from us, then in addition to the above we will collect details about the sector in which you work and the type of content that you would like to receive. 4. How we use your personal information What is the legal basis of our data processing? Under data protection legislation we are only permitted to use your personal information if we have a legal basis for doing so. We rely on the following legal bases to use your information; For employment-related purposes Where we need information to perform the contract we have entered into with you Where we need to comply with a legal obligation Where the processing is necessary for us to carry out activities for which it is in Savills legitimate interests (or those of a third party) to do so and provided that your interests and fundamental rights do not override those interests, including: Processing that is necessary for us to promote our business, brands and products and measure the reach and effectiveness of our campaigns – this will include sending you marketing information from time to time after you have engaged us to provide services or received services from us either which may be similar and of interest to you or where you have expressly indicated that you would like to receive such information. You have the right to opt out of receiving this information at any time. Processing that is necessary to improve our knowledge of the real estate sector – this will include undertaking market analysis and research so that we better understand trends in the property sector and provide better knowledge along with more tailored and relevant services for our customers in the future. Processing necessary for us to operate the administrative and technical aspects of our business efficiently and effectively – this will include verifying the accuracy of information that we hold about you and create a better understanding of you as a customer; processing for administrative efficiency purposes such as where we outsource certain administrative functions to third parties who are specialise in such services; processing for network and information security purposes i.e. in order for us to take steps to protect your information against loss, damage, theft or unauthorised access or to comply with a request from you in connection with the exercise of any of your rights outlined below. In more limited circumstances we may also rely on the following legal bases: Where we need to protect your interests (or someone else's interests); and/or Where it is needed in the public interest or for official purposes We may process special categories of personal information and criminal conviction information in the following limited circumstances: With your explicit consent, in which case we will explain the purpose for which the information will be used at the point where we ask for your consent. Specific information on how your personal information will be used for the particular services you have requested from us is provided below. Buy, Sell, Let, Rent We use your personal information for the purposes of fulfilling our obligations to you to let or sell your property or, if you are a buyer or tenant, for the purposes of arranging viewings, obtaining feedback, and arranging a contract for sale or a lease for you. We will use your personal information to conduct due diligence in accordance with other legal or regulatory obligations We will share your personal information with your appointed solicitors and the solicitors and agents acting for the other side of the deal as is necessary to facilitate the sale or purchase. We may also share your personal information with joint or multi agents or developers, as the case may be. We will share your personal data with third party referencing agencies for the purposes of the prevention and detection of crime, fraud and/or money laundering and checking your suitability to rent that property. In such circumstances, the third party referencing agency may act as a data controller for your information. Property Management Where we are managing property on your behalf we may need to pass your personal information from time to time on to third party contractors whom we have engaged to carry out maintenance on your properties. We may also pass your personal information to SPF Private Clients Limited. We operate CCTV in properties based on our legitimate interest in protecting the property and ensuring the safety of visitors, tenants and clients, as well as to assist with the prevention and detection of crime. Investment Where you engage us for portfolio management services we will share your personal information with third party lenders as is necessary to allow us to fulfil our obligations to you, to raise finance for you and to properly manage and advise you on your property investments. Where you engage with Savills Investment Management we will collect and hold your personal data to maintain a register of investment holdings in order to comply with our Financial Conduct Authority requirements. Our registers are held by a third party administrator, Langham Hall UK LLP. Finance We may pass your personal data to SPF Private Clients Limited, an independent company with which Savills has a “preferred supplier” relationship, on a referral basis in relation to the arrangement of financing to allow you to acquire a property and/or the provision of the following services: if you are purchasing a property under the Help to Buy scheme we will disclose information which needs to be provided to the scheme operators to check your eligibility and to allow you to participate in and obtain benefits from the scheme; if you are obtaining mortgage brokerage services we will disclose personal information that needs to be submitted lenders (and if you are a high value mortgage customer, private banks) in order to fulfil our obligations to seek funding options for you; if you are an insurance customer we will disclose information to be sent to a selected panel of insurance providers in order to obtain suitable options for insurance products for your requirements. Other uses of your personal information If we sell any part of our business and/or integrate it with another organisation your details may be disclosed to our advisers and to prospective purchasers or joint venture partners and their advisers. If this occurs the new owners of the business will only be permitted to use your information in the same or similar way as set out in this privacy notice. We will share personal information with our regulators, governmental or quasi-governmental organisations, law enforcement authorities and with courts, tribunals and arbitrators as may be required from time to time in order to comply with our regulatory and legal obligations. Where we use third party services providers who process personal information on our behalf in order to provide services to us. This includes IT systems providers and IT contractors as well as third party referencing or screening agencies for the purposes of the prevention and detection of crime. We may share your personal information with any person working within the Savills Group on a need to know basis to ensure we are able to perform our obligations to you. We will hold your personal information on our client management systems and use this to provide you with marketing information about similar services offered by Savills to those which you have engaged us to provide which we feel you might find useful from time to time. You have the opportunity to opt out of receiving this information at any time. What happens if you do not provide information that we request? We need some of your personal information to perform the services you have requested from us. For example: where we are selling a property on your behalf we need to know your contact information so that we can update you with information on viewings, offers and the progress of the sale; and where you have asked us to find you a property which meets certain access requirements, we may need to know some further details about your particular circumstances so that we can find you a suitable property. We also need some information so that we can comply with our legal obligations. For example, we may need identity documents from you to meet our obligations to prevent fraud and money laundering. If you do not provide the information required for these purposes, we will not be able to perform our contract with you and may not be able to provide services to you or continue to provide certain services to you. We will explain when this is the case at the point where we collect information from you. 5. How we keep your information secure The security of information is very important to us and we have measures in place which are designed to prevent unauthorised access to your personal information including but not limited to: Our client files are stored on our secure client management systems. Access is restricted on our client systems to those within the business who are required to have access to your information for legitimate business purposes. Hard copy documentation is stored in locked cabinets. All data is hosted in datacentres which have systems and protections in place to protect against both unauthorised access, and other external factors that could cause damage to, your personal data. There are strict access requirements in place and access is restricted to those absolutely necessary. We ensure access to personal information is restricted to Savills employees and workers or other persons working within the Savills Group on a need to know basis. Training is provided to any of those Savills employees and workers who need access to personal information. 6. For how long do we keep your personal information The period for which we will keep your personal information will depend on the type of service you have requested from us. The retention period may be longer than the period for which we are providing services to you where we have statutory or regulatory obligations to retain personal information for a longer period, or where we may need to retain the information in case of a legal claim. 7. Overseas transfers of your personal information We may transfer, store, or process your personal information in locations outside the UK and the European Economic Area (EEA). Where the countries to which your personal information is transferred do not offer an equivalent level of protection for personal information to the laws of the UK, we will ensure that appropriate safeguards are put in place. We’ll use one of these safeguards: Transfer it to a non-EEA country that has received an adequacy decision from the European Commission. This means that country has privacy laws that give the same protection as within the EEA. Put in place the EU Commission’s standard contractual clauses with the recipient. This means that they must protect it to the same standards as organisations within the EEA. Transfer it to organisations that have implemented binding corporate rules , which have been approved by an EU supervisory authority. 8. Your rights in relation to your personal information You have a number of rights in relation to your personal information, including the right to: Be informed about how we use your personal information Obtain access to your personal information that we hold Request that your personal information is corrected if you believe it is incorrect, incomplete or inaccurate Request that we erase your personal information in the following circumstances: If Savills is continuing to process personal information beyond the period when it is necessary to do so for the purpose for which it was originally collected If Savills is relying on consent as the legal basis for processing and you withdraw consent If Savills is relying on legitimate interests as the legal basis for processing and you object to this processing and there is no overriding compelling ground which enables us continue with the processing If the personal information has been processed unlawfully (i.e. in breach of the requirements of the data protection legislation) If it is necessary to delete the personal information to comply with a legal obligation Ask us to restrict our data processing activities where you consider that: personal information is inaccurate our processing of your personal information is unlawful where we no longer need the personal information but you require us to keep it to enable you to establish, exercise or defend a legal claim where you have raised an objection to our use of your personal information Request a copy of certain personal information that you have provided to us in a commonly used electronic format. This right relates to personal information that you have provided to us that we need in order to perform our agreement with you and personal information where we are relying on consent to process your personal information Object to our processing of your personal information where we are relying on legitimate interests or exercise of a public interest task to make the processing lawful. If you raise an objection we will carry out an assessment to determine whether we have an overriding legitimate ground which entitles us to continue to process your personal information; and Not be subject to wholly automated decisions which produce legal effects or which could have a similarly significant effect on you. If you would like to exercise any of your rights please contact dpo@savills.com . Please note that we will keep a record of the fact that you have made a request to exercise your rights, and our response to your request, in order to demonstrate compliance with our data protection obligations and so that we can handle any queries, complaints or claims in relation to your request. This record will be kept in accordance with our retention policies at section 6 above. 9. Complaints and Contact Details Complaints If you have any complaints about the way we use your personal information please contact the Customer Relations Officer at complaints@savills.com who will try to resolve the issue. If we cannot resolve any issue, you have the right to complain to the data protection authority in your country (the Information Commissioner in the UK). If you need more information about how to contact your local data protection authority please let us know by contacting dpo@savills.com. Contact details If you have any questions, comments or requests regarding any aspect of this Privacy Policy, please do not hesitate to contact us by sending an email to dpo@savills.com or writing to the Data Protection Officer, Savills plc, Finsbury Circus House, 15 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M 7EB. 10. The use of cookies by Savills What is a cookie? A cookie is a small text file that is downloaded onto your computer when you visit certain websites and allows a website to recognise a user's computer. Cookies are used to help users navigate websites more efficiently and to perform certain functions, as well as to provide information to the owners of the website. What cookies do Savills use? When browsing our website, cookies that are strictly necessary for the performance and function of the website are automatically utilised. We will only utilise non-essential cookies if you have provided us with consent to do so by selecting ‘Allow all cookies’ in the cookies banner. The table below lists the cookies used by this website and provides a description of how each cookie works, clicking the '+' symbol will expand the box to give further explanation on each cookie. Where further information about a cookie exists on an external website a link has been provided under 'More information' Adway Connect Purpose This tracking script is intalled on the Savills website careers pages. It tracks user behaviour in order to optimise Savills job vacancy adverts. More information https://adway.ai/en/cookies/ Doubleclick Purpose Advertising and marketing effectiveness. A floodlight tag is an image pixel that is created within DFA and resides on the Advertiser’s webpage. We may use this for re-targeting optimisation, reporting, and attribution of online adverts. More information How to reject or delete this cookie - https://adssettings.google.com/authenticated?hl=en#display_optout Facebook Purpose Facebook, may use cookies, web beacons, and other storage technologies to collect or receive specific types of information and Savills may use that information to provide targeted ads. More information For more information: https://en-gb.facebook.com/help/568137493302217 Giosg Live Chat Purpose The Savills Website uses a 3rd party live chat service, Giosg. This includes the the use of cookies for the personalization and analytics. Tracking and storage of data including IP address, content of chat conversations, visited URLs, referrer URL, timestamp, operating system, device, browser. More information More information: https://www.giosg.com/terms-of-service Google Ads Purpose The Savills Website uses Google Adwords to remarket or use similar audiences to display adverts on other 3rd party websites. More information To opt out: https://support.google.com/ads/answer/2662922?hl=en-GB Google Analytics Purpose The Savills Website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google. This sets a cookie in order to evaluate your use of our website and compile reports for us on activity of our website. More information How to reject or delete this cookie - http://www.google.com/intl/en/privacypolicy.html You can also opt out here - https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout/ gpsCountryCode Purpose Records the country ISO code the site defaults to and is updated by the users selection More information Perpetual gpsId Purpose Unique identifier for user More information Perpetual gpsLanguageCode Purpose Records the ISO language code the site defaults to and is updated by the users selection More information Perpetual Hotjar Purpose Hotjar allows us to understand what users do on our site by visually (and anonymously) representing their clicks, taps, and scrolling behavior. More information For more information visit the Hotjar site - https://www.hotjar.com/legal/policies/privacy LinkedIn Conversion Tracking and Insight Tag Purpose The LinkedIn Insight Tag is a piece of lightweight JavaScript code that we have added to our websites to enable in-depth campaign reporting and to help us unlock valuable insights about our website visitors. We use the LinkedIn Insight Tag to track conversions, retarget website visitors, and unlock additional insights about members interacting with our LinkedIn adverts. The LinkedIn Insight Tag enables the collection of metadata such as IP address information, timestamp, and events such as page views. All data is encrypted. The LinkedIn browser cookie is stored in a visitor's browser until they delete the cookie or the cookie expires (there’s a rolling six-month expiration from the last time the visitor’s browser loaded the Insight Tag). More information You can opt out of cookies from LinkedIn on your LinkedIn settings page and recommend you read their Cookie Policy for more information. MediaMath Purpose MediaMath is a global provider of digital media and data management technology for advertisers and agencies. MediaMath's marketing technology activates data, automates execution, and optimizes advertising interactions across addressable media delivering greater performance, transparency, and control to marketers and a better experience to consumers. To provide these services, MediaMath processes consumer, client, and visitor data. MediaMath may disclose this data as deemed necessary: to our group companies; to clients and partners; to service providers; or to other third parties when we consider this to be necessary for legal, security, or fraud-prevention reasons. More information https://www.mediamath.com/privacy-policy/ Teads Purpose Teads tags collects and uses data to help make online advertising more relevant as well as for ad delivery and reporting purposes. More information https://www.teads.com/privacy-policy/ Twitter Purpose The Savills Website uses Twitter ads to remarket or use similar audiences to display adverts on Twitter. More information https://help.twitter.com/en/safety-and-security/privacy-controls-for-tailored-ads VWO Purpose Savills uses VWO to test diffrent variations of content and improve user experience. More information To opt out: https://vwo.com/opt-out/ How do I restrict or delete cookies? 13 of the cookies we use are essential for parts of the website to operate and have already been set. You may delete and block all cookies from this website, but please be aware that restricting or deleting cookies may impact on the functionality of the website. Your web browser may allow you to restrict or delete cookies set by this website. The Help function within your browser should tell you how. Alternatively, you can visit www.allaboutcookies.org which provides general information about cookies and how you can manage cookies on your computer. To opt out of being tracked by Google Analytics across all websites visit http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout . Get in touch Find a person or office to assist you. Whether you're a private individual or a property professional we've got someone who can help. Find a person or an office Subscribe to receive exclusive news and listings free Send Success! You are now subscribed to the Savills mailing list. Sorry, something went wrong. Residential Property For sale Property for sale Property for sale Scotland Property for sale England Property for sale Wales Property for sale in London Help to Buy in London Help to Buy in UK New developments for sale in England New developments for sale in London New developments for sale in Scotland For rent Property to rent in UK Property to rent Scotland Property to rent England Property to rent Wales Property to rent in London New developments to rent in England New developments to rent in London New developments to rent in Scotland Commercial Property For sale Commercial property for sale Development property for sale Industrial properties for sale Leisure properties for sale Offices for sale Hotels for sale Land for sale Industrial property for sale England Hotels for sale in England Offices for sale in England Flexible office space For rent Office property to let Industrial property to let Pubs to let Rural Property Rural property for sale Farms for sale Equestrian property for sale Country estates for sale International Property for sale in Europe Property for sale in France Property for sale in the US Property for sale in Italy Property for sale in Australia Offices All UK offices UK offices by county London Offices Find an office worldwide Services & Sectors Services Asset Management Buying or Selling Property Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Property Management Valuation Sectors Affordable Housing Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food and Farming Healthcare Hotels Industrial And logistics Infrastructure and Transport Leisure Minerals and Commodities Office & Business Space Public Sector Residential Retail Rural Senior Living Serviced Offices Student Accommodation Telecoms Trade-Related & Specialist Sectors Utilities Waste Management More Information Sitemap RSS Feeds Accessibility Feedback TDS Explained Provision of Services Slavery & Human Trafficking Terms & Conditions Privacy & Cookies Client Money Protection Scotland Letting Agent Code of Practice Help to Buy Calculator Residential Stamp Duty Calculator Commercial Stamp Duty Calculator Rental Yield Calculator Land & Buildings Transaction Tax (LBTT) Calculator ESG at Savills Fees & Charges Residential Tenant Fees & Charges Residential Landlord Fees & Charges Talk to Us Find a Savills Office Find a Savills Employee Book a Property Valuation Careers with Savills Ask a Question Investor Relations All content © copyright Savills. All rights reserved. Savills plc, incorporated and registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD. Registered number: 2122174. Savills plc is a holding company, some of whose subsidiaries are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and some of whose subsidiaries are regulated by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). Find us on social Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Facebook YouTube