Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. Find out more Manage cookies Allow all cookies Manage Cookies Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. For more information about how we and our partners use cookies on our site, see our Cookie Policy Strictly necessary These cookies are necessary for the Savills website to function. Examples of this include: setting your privacy preferences, logging in to your Savills account, or filling in forms. Though these cookies cannot be switched off, you can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but please be aware that this will stop some parts of the Savills website from functioning as intended. Find out more about strictly necessary cookies here . Always allowed Functional cookies These cookies are used to enhance the performance of the Savills website, as without them certain functions of the website may not be available. While they are not vital for the website to run, they allow us to remember important information and your preferences such as previous location searches. Find out more about functional cookies here . Allow Targeting & tracking These cookies record your activity on the Savills website and our partners may use that information to show you adverts that they think you will be most interested in when you visit other websites. We may also use information recorded by these cookies to see how well these adverts are performing. Find out more about targeting and tracking cookies here . Allow Save and close Allow all cookies Location and Language Selection Close United Kingdom Location Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe United Kingdom Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe Language English English English Book a valuation Search Close Site Search: Search My Account Menu Menu > Find a property > Market your property > Find a service > Why Savills > Insight & Opinion > Contact us Close Find a property Find a property Whether buying a townhouse or selling a country cottage, leasing corporate office space or renting farmland, our experts make it their business to understand your needs and help you find the right property. Search for a property Residential Search for a residential property Buy a property in London Rent a property in London New homes for sale Properties in Europe Properties in the Caribbean Properties in the US Properties in Asia Pacific Properties in The Alps Farms & Estates Search for rural property Farms for sale Estates for sale Equestrian property for sale Commercial Search for a commercial property Offices to lease in the UK Development land for sale in the UK Retail properties Industrial properties to lease Leisure properties for sale Hotels for sale Flexible office space Investment properties for sale Residential investment Student housing investment Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert What's your property worth? Get expert advice for residential, commercial or rural property, grounded in our experience and knowledge of local, regional and international markets. Arrange a market appraisal Property auctions As one of the UK’s leading auction houses, we offer a large selection of residential and commercial property for sale by auction. More Information Where are residential property sales holding up the strongest? Residential Sales 31 May 2023 We forecast that limited mortgage availability and high interest rates would see home buying activity levels fall in 2023. Read this article Market your property Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an agent Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Market your property Whether you're planning to sell, rent or are undecided, we have an expert who can help. More Information Selling a Residential Property Letting a Residential Property Auctioning a Property Selling a Mews Property Selling New-Build Property Selling International Property Selling a Farm Selling a Fishing Beat Selling a Forest or Woodland Selling a Quarry or Waste Management Facility Selling a Shoot Selling an Estate Selling Country Property Selling Equestrian Property Selling Waterfront Property Interior, Furnishing and Refurbishment Services Private Office Selling Commercial Property Selling Healthcare Property Selling Leisure or Trade-Related Property Real Estate Insights Podcast: Impacts 2023: what is the purpose of property? Research 7 June 2023 Our latest podcast discusses how financial, environmental and social purposes intersect, and how they can be measured, as well as unveiling some of the key findings to emerge from this year’s Impacts publication. Read this article Find a service Find a service Savills offers a wide range of specialist services from financial and investment advice to valuation, planning and property management. More Information Asset Management Auctions Buying or Selling Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Private Office Property Management Research Savills Earth (ESG Consulting) Valuation Browse by sector Our services cover a broad range of property sectors. More Information Affordable Housing Auctions Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food & Farming Forestry Healthcare High St/In Town Retail Hotels Industrial & Logistics Infrastructure Leisure Marine Minerals & Commodities Mixed Use Office & Business Space Operational Capital Markets Out of Town Retail Public Sector Pubs, Bars & Restaurants Residential Residential Investment & Development Residential Development Sales Retail Rural Science & Technology Senior Living Serviced Offices Shopping Centres Trade-Related Sports Venues Student Accommodation Telecoms Utilities Visitor Attractions Vineyards Waste Management Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Find your nearest office With over 40,000 people working across more than 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Why Savills Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise spans the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East. More Information How we work Our integrity, honesty and professionalism is what gives our clients, colleagues, investors and business partners the confidence to work with us. More Information Innovation and technology Savills is at the forefront of exploring and developing new capabilities, bringing together people and technology to push boundaries and take real estate to a new level. More Information Awards Over the years we have been recognised as ‘best in class’ in a diverse range of disciplines. More Information Sustainability & ESG Savills UK sustainability strategy aims to achieve a positive impact on the environment and society, whilst maintaining robust governance measures. More Information Investor relations Savills Plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange within the FTSE250 index. Our annual reports and investor updates can be found online. Visit our Investor Relations site Diversity & Inclusion Savills is committed to eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity amongst our workforce. More information Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion is our hub for residential, commercial and rural articles and research from experts offering industry-leading advice and analysis. Research In-depth research and analysis into property market trends, forecasts from our specialist research teams, and market-leading commentary to help you make the right property decisions. Browse our market research Subscribe to Savills Research Residential reports Residential forecasts Office reports Retail reports Rural reports Residential property prices and trends ESG Research Industrial reports Residential development & investment Savills Indices Research services Webinars The Savills Blog The latest UK and international property market news and opinions, plus helpful guides and top tips from our renowned industry experts. Read the Savills Blog Savills News Up-to-the-minute news from our press teams providing the latest developments within Savills, and across the property industry. Read our press releases Savills Podcasts Keep yourself informed on the ‘real’ behind the real estate headlines, our podcast brings you engaging and insightful discussion with experts across our global business on the issues that matter most in property. Listen to the podcasts Portfolio by Savills Portfolio by Savills seamlessly blends the latest trends, inspirational lifestyle content, and the world’s finest properties with the expert insight and analysis you would expect from Savills. Portfolio has property at its heart, and we’d like you to be part of it. Explore Portfolio by Savills Contact us Find an office With over 40,000 people working across 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Our offices by region London East of England East Midlands North East North West South East South West West Midlands Yorkshire & The Humber Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Channel Islands Find a person Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Careers with Savills At Savills, our most valuable resource is our people. We are known for our positive, entrepreneurial culture, and for attracting some of the most innovative, dedicated and knowledgeable people in the business. More Information Current Vacancies General enquiries We're here to provide you with more information, answer any questions you may have, or connect you with the right people to help with your needs. Use our general enquiry form to get in touch today. Speak to the team 6 of the best...Former rectories Residential Sales 9 June 2023 From the recently renovated to the classically stylish, featured here are a few of our favourite examples currently on the market. Read this article > Home Buying or Selling Details Contacts & Related Articles Contact the team When it comes to buying and selling property, we advise across all residential, rural and commercial markets. Our services are designed to help maximise the value of your asset, and to help you every step of the way of the transaction process. Whether you’re a seasoned home owner, a first-time buyer, an owner of rural land or a commercial portfolio, our advice is always tailored, and transparent. Our strong market knowledge, informed by in-house sector-leading research, ensures you receive the best possible advice every time, whatever your needs. Contact the team Experts in Buying or Selling Andrew Perratt Head of UK Residential Residential Head Office London +44 (0) 20 7016 3823 Contact Now Alex Lawson Director National Farms and Estates Head Office London +44 (0) 20 7409 8882 Contact Now Jeremy Bates EMEA Head of Occupational Markets Head Office London +44 (0) 20 7409 8813 Contact Now George Cardale MRICS Head of UK Residential Development Sales Residential Development Sales Bristol +44 (0) 1179 100 351 Contact Now Related Articles Development Significant mixed use development site brought to the market in Bath Auctions A hat trick of commercial specialists joins Savills Auctions Auctions Over 160 lots across London and the country to feature in Savills June auction Log in or create account Enter your details to log in or create a new user account Email address Password Show Forgotten your password? Your login details may be wrong. Please check your details or register a new account. Login Create account Properties for sale View all properties Previous Next Services Buying or Selling Acquiring Commercial Property Working on behalf of investors of commercial real estate, we represent clients at all stages of the transaction process, from opportunity sourcing to due diligence. Read more Buying or Selling Auctioning a Property Being one of the UK’s leading auction houses, our auction experts build on 20 years of selling all types of property, and have acted on over 15,000 transactions equating to more than £4 billion. As two separate teams working from Savills head office in London and our regional office in Nottingham, we conduct site inspections and offer accurate market appraisals to a diverse range of clients. Read more Buying or Selling Buying a New-Build Home From pied-à-terres and city apartments to rural and seaside retreats, we are best placed to help you find and secure your ideal new home. The advantages of new-build property include a chain-free purchase, low maintenance and energy efficiency. Read more Buying or Selling Buying a Residential Property Residential property transactions are the most significant any of us ever undertake. But whether you’re buying a flat, house, country estate or waterfront property, Savills team of experienced estate agents can guide you through process. Read more Buying or Selling Buying and Selling Country Property From finding the right country property, to negotiations and through to exchange and completion, our country house experts support clients every step of the way. Alongside core competencies, we combine specialist country property knowledge with an understanding of how high-end buyers live. Read more Buying or Selling Buying and Selling International Property Wherever in the world you’re looking to buy, sell or develop property, our team of country specialists and global network of 600 offices and associates can help. Read more Buying or Selling Buying or Selling a Farm At Savills we have built a trusted reputation for selling and buying rural properties and land. Our marketing expertise is extensive, deeply-embedded and national in scope. Read more Buying or Selling Buying or Selling a Fishing Beat Prime game fishing beats are highly prized, aspirational assets. Sellers need to make the most of their opportunities, whilst buyers need informed guidance before purchasing at a fair price. In each case, Savills has unparalleled expertise and an enviable track record, helping clients to sell (including selling by syndication), let or buy game fisheries and properties with water frontage. Read more Buying or Selling Buying or Selling a Forest or Woodland Within Savills rural agency team, we have a group of specialists steeped in the business of buying and selling woodland and forestry. The core of five specialists work alongside rural property experts in our regional offices, delivering a nationwide service. This entails appraising, preparing, marketing and negotiating the purchase or sale of woodland and forestry of all types and sizes. Read more Buying or Selling Buying or Selling a Quarry or Waste Management Facility Our team of nine chartered surveyors and experts working exclusively within the minerals and waste sectors. Each helps land owners, private clients, local authorities, corporate clients and financial institutions find, invest in or dispose of quarries and waste management facilities. These include freehold and leasehold properties, together with associated business assets. Read more Buying or Selling Buying or Selling a Shoot For many years, the Savills name has been synonymous with sporting estates in the UK. We know how to assess the capabilities of a shoot, its potential and its compatibility to the current market. Our shoot experts can guide buyers on areas of improvement and growth, or ensure sellers can maximise the value of their assets prior to a sale. For those looking to invest in this kind of property, we bring years of expertise to bear, to ensure accurately benchmarked costings and plans are put in place. Read more Buying or Selling Buying or Selling an Estate Our specialist rural agency team has spent many years delivering results for private individuals, farmers, investors and institutions alike, and has become a natural port of call for anyone looking to buy or sell a sporting, residential or agricultural estate. Read more Development Buying & Selling Development Land and Opportunities If you have land that can be developed, you need an expert at your shoulder, advising on your entitlements, options and procedures. With development consultants working across the UK, Savills has built enviable expertise in selling and buying land for new projects, then turning potential into real development opportunities. In addition to buying and selling we provide consultancy guidance, transactional support and market appraisals. Read more Buying or Selling Buying or Selling Equestrian Property From a small paddock to a vast country estate, a racing or livery yard to an equestrian centre, we guide clients through buying or selling equestrian property every step of the way. Read more Buying or Selling Buying or Selling Healthcare Property Some organisations understand property and others healthcare, but Savills has a specialist team dedicated to both. Our London-based experts devote decades of cumulative experience to valuing, selling and acquiring healthcare properties across the UK. Read more Buying or Selling Buying or Selling Leisure or Trade-Related Property Our specialist teams provide advice on buying, selling and investing in leisure and trade-related property of every description in the UK. From caravan parks, golf courses and to sports venues, to visitor attractions, water-based leisure and equestrian properties, we can guide clients through the whole process to secure the best possible results. Read more Buying or Selling Buying or Selling Waterfront Property We are a collaborative national network of experts specialising in waterfront living. Combining specialist waterfront market insight with in-depth local knowledge, we help clients to buy and sell property across the UK’s most popular coastal and waterfront areas. Read more Buying or Selling Disposing of Commercial Property From industrial and office space to retail property and student accommodation, our experts support clients at every stage of their transaction, from marketing the property through to liaising with solicitors. Read more Letting or Renting Interior, Furnishing & Refurbishment Services Having built our reputation on buying and selling properties, we are always delighted to show that we have specialists who know how to maximise the appeal of a property’s interiors and exteriors. Our team coordinates and manages all aspects of bespoke interior and exterior design, refurbishment, property dressing and furniture rental or purchase. This allows client properties to be presented to their greatest advantage, maximising the sales price for vendors or rental income for landlords, whilst minimising void periods. Read more Buying or Selling Private Office Within the Savills network lies a vast array of expertise, spread across all aspects of residential, commercial and rural property. Our private office opens the door to this range of capabilities, channelled via a single point of contact, who helps high and ultra-high net worth individuals and their advisers gain access to comprehensive yet tailored and confidential real estate expertise and advice, across the full spectrum of Savills services. Read more Buying or Selling Selling a Residential Property We know that there’s much more to selling a property than recommending an asking pricing and marketing it to buyers. We guide you every step of the way, from advising on how best to present your home for viewings, to negotiating the sale and liaising with solicitors. Whether you're planning to sell, rent or are undecided, we'll ensure a smooth process at every stage. Read more Buying or Selling Selling New-Build Property Our clients benefit from our experience and specialist advice. Residential developers, property companies, pension funds, estates, house builders and registered providers can all tap into Savills expertise and our unrivalled market knowledge. Read more Buying or Selling Sports & Entertainment Services We are a specialist team providing bespoke and confidential property advice for people in the sports and entertainment world. Our service is about you, we are dedicated to finding property solutions shaped to the needs and brief of each individual client – backed by the strength of the wider Savills network services and through a single point of contact. Read more Buying or Selling Using a Buying Agent Prime Purchase is a leading property search agency owned by Savills, providing advice on acquisitions and rentals. Their experts act solely on behalf of buyers and tenants to discover homes in London or the country which meet specific briefs and needs. Local experts provide unrivalled access to properties – both those marketed publicly and many that are not on the open market, via a single point of contact. Each member of the team are fully aware that finding the right property takes time: their time, not yours. Read more Subscribe to receive exclusive news and listings free Send Success! You are now subscribed to the Savills mailing list. Sorry, something went wrong. Residential Property For sale Property for sale Property for sale Scotland Property for sale England Property for sale Wales Property for sale in London Help to Buy in London Help to Buy in UK New developments for sale in England New developments for sale in London New developments for sale in Scotland For rent Property to rent in UK Property to rent Scotland Property to rent England Property to rent Wales Property to rent in London New developments to rent in England New developments to rent in London New developments to rent in Scotland Commercial Property For sale Commercial property for sale Development property for sale Industrial properties for sale Leisure properties for sale Offices for sale Hotels for sale Land for sale Industrial property for sale England Hotels for sale in England Offices for sale in England Flexible office space For rent Office property to let Industrial property to let Pubs to let Rural Property Rural property for sale Farms for sale Equestrian property for sale Country estates for sale International Property for sale in Europe Property for sale in France Property for sale in the US Property for sale in Italy Property for sale in Australia Offices All UK offices UK offices by county London Offices Find an office worldwide Services & Sectors Services Asset Management Buying or Selling Property Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Property Management Valuation Sectors Affordable Housing Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food and Farming Healthcare Hotels Industrial And logistics Infrastructure and Transport Leisure Minerals and Commodities Office & Business Space Public Sector Residential Retail Rural Senior Living Serviced Offices Student Accommodation Telecoms Trade-Related & Specialist Sectors Utilities Waste Management More Information Sitemap RSS Feeds Accessibility Feedback TDS Explained Provision of Services Slavery & Human Trafficking Terms & Conditions Privacy & Cookies Client Money Protection Scotland Letting Agent Code of Practice Help to Buy Calculator Residential Stamp Duty Calculator Commercial Stamp Duty Calculator Rental Yield Calculator Land & Buildings Transaction Tax (LBTT) Calculator ESG at Savills Fees & Charges Residential Tenant Fees & Charges Residential Landlord Fees & Charges Talk to Us Find a Savills Office Find a Savills Employee Book a Property Valuation Careers with Savills Ask a Question Investor Relations All content © copyright Savills. All rights reserved. Savills plc, incorporated and registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD. Registered number: 2122174. Savills plc is a holding company, some of whose subsidiaries are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and some of whose subsidiaries are regulated by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). Find us on social Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Facebook YouTube