My Foxtons Menu Buy Sell Rent Landlords Auctions House prices Inspiration About Contact Valuation Our services Home Rent Results Property Overview You are not logged in. Log in / Register ` Schools Transport Photos Floorplan Location Save 44 Photos Arrange a viewing Or call 020 7659 8100 Hanover Terrace, Regent's Park, NW1 £17,500 pw £75,834 pcm Fees may apply House 6 6 Consisting of a beautiful five-storey terrace house and an adjacent mews cottage, this imposing 6 bedroom property has been developed to an exceptional standard and boasts stunning views over Regent's Park. Arrange a viewing £17,500 pw £75,834 pcm Fees may apply Or call us on 020 7659 8100 Key features Beautiful 5 storey terraced house and adjacent mews cottage Presented to an exceptional standard Main bedroom with luxurious en suite Contemporary kitchen with adjoining sun-room Fully air-conditioned gym and sauna Across the garden is situated the 2 bedroom mews house One of London's most sought-after addresses Available with Zero Deposit My notes Add yourself a note Your note has been updated Save note Cancel (maximum length of note is 256 characters) Further details Deposit: This property is part of the Zero Deposit Guarantee scheme Council tax: £1,824 per year (Band H) Local authority: The City of Westminster Total Sq Ft: 4,510 (418 Sq M) approx. Reference: 21034228 Council tax is given as a guide only and should be checked and confirmed before exchange of contracts. Zero Deposit Guarantee The Zero Deposit Guarantee replaces the traditional deposit, making renting more affordable and freeing up cash for the moving process. Foxtons is partnering with Zero Deposit to offer this scheme on selected properties. The Zero Deposit Guarantee allows you to rent a property with the equivalent of one week's rent to be paid at the start of the tenancy. When you move out of the property the usual inventory and check-out take place and, as long as there is no damage or rent/bills outstanding, the Guarantee expires and you walk away. If the landlord does claim for reimbursement, rather than this being taken out of a prepaid deposit in the traditional system, you simply pay the amount required to the landlord. Any dispute between yourself and the landlord on this amount will be decided by the Tenancy Deposit Scheme. Understand more on www.zerodeposit.com Benefits of Foxtons Lettings Drastically speed up the rental process. Sign tenancy agreements online Pay securely online Manage documents online Track your deposit online Learn more or sign in / register Nearest stations Marylebone station Bakerloo Chiltern Railways lines, Zone: 1 Baker Street station Metropolitan Hammersmith & City Jubilee Circle Bakerloo lines, Zone: 1 Edgware Road (Circle Line) station District Hammersmith & City Circle lines, Zone: 1 Energy Performance Certificates The Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) gives the building a standard energy and carbon emission efficiency grade from 'A' to 'G', where 'A' is the most efficient and 'D' being the average to date. Local Life Hanover Terrace is an prestigious address close to the Regent's Park Boating Lake and boasts tranquil surroundings close to amenities in Camden and the West End. Regent's Park locals have kindly shared their favourite places to go... Lord's Cricket Ground A summer's afternoon watching the cricket at Lord's is hard to beat! The Duke of York A really cosy pub with traditional interiors, this place is a great little spot. Regent's Park Mosque One of the largest mosques in West London, also providing a cafeteria, library, attire and book shop. Discover more places around Regent's Park Interested in this property? Call Foxtons Marylebone and Mayfair 020 7659 8100 Arrange a viewing Arrange a viewing When would you like to view this property? 9am to 12pm 12pm to 2pm 2pm to 6pm 6pm to 8pm If you would like a booking before 12pm tomorrow please call the office on 020 7659 8100 to check availability. Our offices are closed Please choose another date or call 020 7659 8100 No appointments are available Please choose another date or call 020 7659 8100 Arrange a viewing You might also be interested in... Finding a match Finding a match Finding a match Finding a match Finding a match Finding a match Finding a match Get a valuation Has your property's value increased? Call 0800 369 8667 to find out how much your property is worth NW1 Local Intelligence Providing an insight into the NW1 property market Tenants looking for properties through Foxtons Marylebone and Mayfair 624 Studio 28 1 bed 148 2 bed 257 3 bed+ 136 Various 55 Popular rental searches nearby Properties to Rent in Regent's Park Houses to Rent in Regent's Park Flats to Rent in Regent's Park Apartments to Rent in Regent's Park Properties to Rent in Hanover Terrace Properties to Rent in NW1 6 bedroom properties to Rent in Regent's Park Short Lets in this area Regent's Park Short Lets Camden Short Lets North London Short Lets Search in nearby postcodes N1 , N7 , NW3 , NW5 , NW8 , W1 , W2 Properties Let by Foxtons Marylebone and Mayfair in the last 4 quarters 181 0 12 Months ago This quarter Market review Properties sold in NW1 by all estate agents Properties sold in NW1 by Foxtons Guide to Regent's Park Regent's Park house prices Regent's Park rental values How much do you think your property is worth now? Alexi Earl , Lettings Manager from Foxtons Marylebone and Mayfair is our expert in this area: Online valuation Our local office Foxtons Marylebone and Mayfair 27 - 31 Blandford Street London W1U 3DN Call 020 7659 8100 Estate agents in Regent's Park Estate agents in NW1 We value your privacy We use necessary cookies to make our website work and we'd like to use other cookies to give you the most relevant experience. Click “Accept all” to agree to all cookies, or for more options click on “Change Settings”. For more information see our cookie policy Accept All Change Settings Privacy and Cookies Policy Introduction Strictly necessary Functionality cookies Performance cookies Performance cookies Performance cookies let us collect information about how the website is used. For example, we may record what pages are visited most. This data allows us to see where we could optimise the website and make it more efficient. Foxtons: tbp, twp2, tws. tco, referrer Foxtons uses performance cookies to help understand how our visitors use the website and how we can improve our website. We also host the following third-party solutions, which may set the following cookies: Google Analytics: _ga, _gat, _gat_UA-<TOKEN>, utmx, utmxx Google Analytics cookies are used to distinguish users and sessions and gather usage data related to your visit to our website so we can improve our website. AddThis: _atssc, _atuvc, _atuvs, _ Some pages may have the AddThis social plugin to allow you to share pages to your social network and for Foxtons to view reports on which pages were shared and how. Crazyegg: _ceir, is_returning, _CEFT, _ceg.s, _ceg.u, s, u, cer.s, cer.v Crazyegg is a third-party optimisation solution which helps us to test, analyse and improve each user's experience on the website based on their online behaviour. Functionality cookies Functionality cookies allow the website to remember settings such as the screen size, which lets us serve the right content without overloading any network or device capacity. mortgage - Stores your mortgage settings for use across the website. recent - Stores information of the last pages you have viewed. screen - Stores the screen size of the device that you are viewing our website on. This allows us to serve the right content for the device you are using without overloading your network and preserving best layout. Strictly necessary cookies Strictly necessary cookies allow you to log into your account and view account details without a need to log in again every time you navigate to subsequent page. These cannot be disabled. foxtons_session - Stores information about whether you are logged in into your account or not. visit_secure_token2 (session) - Stores information necessary to access your account. cookie_policy_displayed - Stores information about the cookie policy declaration. search - Stores your preferences as to how you prefer your results to be displayed i.e display 10 properties per page and price filter ‘from highest to lowest'. is_logged_in - Recognize when a user is logged in, to allow access to restricted areas of the site. What are cookies? To make your experience visiting the Foxtons website as simple and convenient as possible we place small data files known as "cookies" on your computer. This practice is used by many websites. Cookies are created when your browser loads the website. The website sends information to the browser which then creates a text file. Cookies are stored on your device for various periods of time, from as short time as the duration of your browsing session to several months. Every time you come back to the website, the browser retrieves and sends cookies to the server, which helps to improve your experience of the website by: Remembering settings, so you don't have to re-enter them every time you visit Remembering your last properties and searches, helping you to keep on top of new listings Measuring use of the website so that we can see where we can improve You can manage and/or delete these small files from your device, but please be aware that this will limit the functionality that we are able to offer to you. Allow all cookies Save preferences Find your next home Search Unlock the true value of your home Get a valuation Lettings & Property Management New to Foxtons? Instruct us Existing customers Login to My Foxtons Explore news articles, area guides and interior design trends Setting the standard in estate agency We combine best-in-class people and technology to set the standard for service in estate agency Find your nearest office Find your nearest office Our Services Setting the standard in estate agency First time buyers How much can I borrow? Guide to buying Moving home How much is my home worth? Register with Foxtons Find a property New Homes availability Asia Pacific Help for buyers Advantages of choosing Foxtons Mortgages Conveyancing Stamp Duty calculator Why buy a new build? Property Surveys and Lease Extensions Our services Sell your home Foxtons Private Office How much is your home worth? Book a valuation appointment Help Help & Guides Contact us Rental searches Lettings Short lets Corporate relocation Student accommodation Tenant advice Guide to renting Right to Rent Why use Foxtons? Area guides Your tenancy Register with Foxtons My tenancy in My Foxtons Fees & terms Tenant support Our services Find tenants Property Management Specialist services Short lets Help being a landlord Help & Guides Buy to Let Mortgages Property inspiration Blog Interior Design Local life Area guides Schools Let's get social Facebook Twitter Instagram Our company About us Our history Investor Relations Careers Inside Foxtons News from Foxtons Foxtons' Minis Testimonials Social Media Community Community Environment People Our services Register to find a new home Valuation New Homes Corporate Relocations Customer services Opening hours Existing Lettings Feedback Complaints Internal enquiries Press Reports Recruitment Investor Relations All other enquiries Buying and Selling Buying New Homes Selling Landlords and Renting Landlords Property Management Renters Short lets Specialist Services B2R & Institutional PRS Foxtons Private Office Corporate relocation Asia Pacific About Foxtons About Foxtons Estate Agent Sales jobs in London Property Management in London Tenancy FAQs Mobile apps Branch Finder Our estate agencies Central London estate agents East London estate agents North London estate agents South London estate agents Surrey estate agents West London estate agents Popular searches London property for sale London lettings London short lets New Homes in London Property intelligence Area guides House price reports Rental reports Home valuation service © Foxtons Estate Agents Investors Terms and Conditions & Privacy Policy Cookies Policy Sitemap