Hello, Username Log In Sign Up Username My Words Recents Settings Log Out Games & Quizzes Thesaurus Features Word Finder Word of the Day Shop Join MWU More Shop M-W Books Join MWU Log In Username My Words Recents Account Log Out Settings My Words Recents Account Log Out Est. 1828 Thesaurus Synonyms of springy as in flexible as in lively as in flexible as in lively Synonym Chooser Entries Near Cite this Entry Citation Share More from M-W Show more Show more Citation Share More from M-W Save Word To save this word, you'll need to log in. Log In springy adjective Definition of springy 1 as in flexible able to revert to original size and shape after being stretched, squeezed, or twisted pillows made with springy foam that bounces right back Synonyms & Similar Words Relevance flexible stretch plastic rubbery resilient elastic stretchy bouncy rubberlike supple stretchable whippy pliant adaptable pliable ductile malleable moldable limber willowy kneadable lissom lithe lissome lithesome Antonyms & Near Antonyms stiff rigid inelastic inflexible solid hard firm compact unyielding nonelastic short crisp brittle friable flaky crumbly flakey See More stiff rigid inelastic inflexible solid hard firm compact unyielding nonelastic short crisp brittle friable flaky crumbly flakey See More 2 as in lively having much high-spirited energy and movement walks with a springy step Synonyms & Similar Words lively energetic animated active animate brisk bouncing cheerful perky sprightly playful enthusiastic jazzy spirited awake peppy jaunty frisky vivacious airy kinetic zippy sparky pert racy snappy mettlesome bright vital gay spanking agile on the go pizazzy eager spiffy buoyant pizzazzy up nimble dapper spry sparkly chirpy effervescent upbeat dashing bubbly chipper wide - awake exuberant alert nervous impish ebullient frolicsome boisterous keen agog high - spirited open - eyed chirrupy high - strung pixieish skittish Antonyms & Near Antonyms limp lifeless dead languid inactive inanimate leaden listless lazy inert sluggish indolent weary tired sleepy languorous lackadaisical lethargic vapid spiritless dull languishing stolid apathetic boring torpid impassive tedious unambitious irksome phlegmatic See More limp lifeless dead languid inactive inanimate leaden listless lazy inert sluggish indolent weary tired sleepy languorous lackadaisical lethargic vapid spiritless dull languishing stolid apathetic boring torpid impassive tedious unambitious irksome phlegmatic See More Synonym Chooser How does the adjective springy contrast with its synonyms? Some common synonyms of springy are elastic , flexible , resilient , and supple . While all these words mean "able to endure strain without being permanently injured," springy stresses both the ease with which something yields to pressure and the quickness of its return to original shape. the cake is done when the top is springy When is it sensible to use elastic instead of springy ? In some situations, the words elastic and springy are roughly equivalent. However, elastic implies the property of resisting deformation by stretching. an elastic waistband When would flexible be a good substitute for springy ? The words flexible and springy can be used in similar contexts, but flexible applies to something which may or may not be resilient or elastic but which can be bent or folded without breaking. flexible plastic tubing In what contexts can resilient take the place of springy ? While the synonyms resilient and springy are close in meaning, resilient implies the ability to recover shape quickly when the deforming force or pressure is removed. a resilient innersole When is supple a more appropriate choice than springy ? The synonyms supple and springy are sometimes interchangeable, but supple applies to something that can be readily bent, twisted, or folded without any sign of injury. supple leather Thesaurus Entries Near springy spring wagons springy sprinkle See More Nearby Entries Cite this Entry Style MLA Chicago APA Merriam-Webster “Springy.” Merriam-Webster.com Thesaurus , Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/thesaurus/springy. Accessed 15 Jun. 2023. Copy Citation Share Post more words for springy to Facebook Facebook Share more words for springy on Twitter Twitter More from Merriam-Webster on springy Nglish: Translation of springy for Spanish Speakers Love words? Need even more definitions? Subscribe to America's largest dictionary and get thousands more definitions and advanced search—ad free! Merriam-Webster unabridged Can you solve 4 words at once? Play Play Can you solve 4 words at once? Play Play Word of the Day vox populi See Definitions and Examples » Get Word of the Day daily email! Words at Play Palter, Dissemble, and Other Words for Lying Trust us Skunk, Bayou, and Other Words with Native American Origins You've used more than you might think Words For Things You Didn't Know Have Names, Vol. 2 When 'thingamajig' and 'thingamabob' just won't do When Were Words First Used? Look up any year to find out Ask the Editors What Is 'Semantic Bleaching'? How 'literally' can mean 'figuratively' How to Remember 'Affect' and 'Effect' A simple way to keep them apart. (Most of the time.) Why Is There a 'C' in 'Indict'? And who put it there, anyway? 'Everyday' vs. 'Every Day' A simple trick to keep them separate Word Games People of Interest Quiz Can you tell the "sommeliers" from the "spelunkers"? Take the quiz Name That Tree! A quiz that’s all bark, no bite. Take the quiz Spell It Hear a word and type it out. How many can you get... Take the quiz Spelling Bee Quiz Can you outdo past winners of the National Spelli... Take the quiz Merriam Webster Learn a new word every day. Delivered to your inbox! OTHER MERRIAM-WEBSTER DICTIONARIES MERRIAM-WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY SCRABBLE ® WORD FINDER MERRIAM-WEBSTER DICTIONARY API NGLISH - SPANISH-ENGLISH TRANSLATION BRITANNICA ENGLISH - ARABIC TRANSLATION FOLLOW US Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Browse the Dictionary: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z 0-9 BIO GEO Home Help About Us Shop Advertising Info Dictionary API Contact Us Join MWU Videos Word of the Year Kid's Dictionary Law Dictionary Medical Dictionary Privacy Policy Terms of Use Browse the Thesaurus Browse the Medical Dictionary Browse the Legal Dictionary Browse the Kid's Dictionary © 2023 Merriam-Webster, Incorporated