Skip to main content Shop Blog Become a member MENU CLOSE Created with Sketch. Trees, woods and wildlife A-Z tree guide British trees Tree pests and diseases Trees and climate change Benefits of trees Woodland animals Woodland plants Fungi and lichens Habitats Species identification guides Nature's Calendar Ancient Tree Inventory State of UK Woods and Trees 2021 Watch the osprey cam Tune into the action at our Scottish osprey nests at Loch Arkaig. Watch live Protecting trees and woods Threats to woods and trees Campaign with us Take action in your community Tell us about a threat Urban trees Influencing government and policymakers Ancient woodland restoration State of UK Woods and Trees 2021 Landscape-scale conservation Catch up on our campaigns Discover our recent challenges and successes and how you can help. Get the latest news Visiting woods Find a wood Woodland habitats Things to do Foraging Natures' Calendar Ancient Tree Inventory Events Walking Children and families Woods through the seasons Discover more in the woods Things to do in the woods Foraging: what to look out for each month Nature's Calendar Find a wood near you We've got thousands of woods, free for you to visit, across the UK. Plan your journey Plant trees Free trees for schools and communities Trees for landowners and farmers Natural regeneration Benefits of agroforestry Why plant trees? Buy trees from our shop Woodland Carbon Tree planting advice How to choose a tree Where to plant How to plant a tree UK sourced and grown trees: why buy? Plant trees on your land with MOREwoods Agroforestry Show 2023 Join us on 6-7 September for two days of inspirational workshops, talks, field walks and demonstrations. Learn more and book About us What we do Our strategy Where we work How we are run Our history Careers with us Volunteering Our partners Our publications Latest blogs Woodland Walks podcast with Adam Shaw - Yonder Oak Wood, Devon Adam Shaw • 26 May 2023 Best native hedge plants: choose the right hedges Helen Keating • 23 May 2023 10 best trees to attract birds and other wildlife Charlie Mellor • 02 May 2023 Support us Join Become a member Collect Nectar points with Woodland Trust membership Act Campaign with us Volunteer with us Your community Your school Tree Charter Events Partner with us Give Make a donation Support an appeal Leave a gift in your will Dedicate trees or woodland Fundraise for us Play our raffle Carbon donations Philanthropy and major gifts Donate your Nectar points How we spend your money Fundraise As an individual As a group At work Trees, woods and wildlife Back A-Z tree guide British trees Tree pests and diseases Trees and climate change Benefits of trees Woodland animals Woodland plants Fungi and lichens Habitats Species identification guides Nature's Calendar Ancient Tree Inventory State of UK Woods and Trees 2021 Shop Blog Protecting trees and woods Back Threats to woods and trees Campaign with us Take action in your community Tell us about a threat Urban trees Influencing government and policymakers Ancient woodland restoration State of UK Woods and Trees 2021 Landscape-scale conservation Shop Blog Visiting woods Back Find a wood Woodland habitats Things to do Back Things to do Foraging Natures' Calendar Ancient Tree Inventory Events Walking Children and families Woods through the seasons Shop Blog Shop Blog Plant trees Back Free trees for schools and communities Trees for landowners and farmers Natural regeneration Benefits of agroforestry Why plant trees? Buy trees from our shop Woodland Carbon Tree planting advice Back Tree planting advice How to choose a tree Where to plant How to plant a tree Shop Blog UK sourced and grown trees: why buy? Plant trees on your land with MOREwoods Shop Blog About us Back What we do Our strategy Where we work How we are run Our history Careers with us Volunteering Our partners Our publications Shop Blog Support us Back Join Back Join Become a member Collect Nectar points with Woodland Trust membership Shop Blog Act Back Act Campaign with us Volunteer with us Your community Your school Tree Charter Events Partner with us Shop Blog Give Back Give Make a donation Support an appeal Leave a gift in your will Dedicate trees or woodland Fundraise for us Play our raffle Carbon donations Philanthropy and major gifts Donate your Nectar points How we spend your money Shop Blog Fundraise Back Fundraise As an individual As a group At work Shop Blog Shop Blog Become a member Shop Blog 02 Jun 2021 UK moth identification and facts: 12 common species for beginners Amy Lewis Content manager There are more than 870 species of large moth (known as macro moths) in the UK, many of which can be tricky for beginners to tell apart. But there are a few commonly-encountered species that are perfect for practising your ID skills on. Get to know some of the UK's most familiar and easily-identified moths with our quick guide. Top tips for identifying moths Use an ID guide to help you narrow down the likely family of moth your specimen belongs to before trying to identify to species level. Size and resting wing shape are the best clues. Are the wings tucked over one another? Do they lie flat? Is the moth wider than it is long? Colours can fade as moths become older and more damaged so pay close attention to the wing patterns. Try using a light trap to attract moths for closer study, or offer night-scented plants or sugary treats such as cut fruit to tempt in nectar feeders. Take part in a moth trapping event with a local naturalist group to really get your eye in. 1. Angle shades ( Phlogophora meticulosa ) Angle shades moth. Credit: Alex Hyde / naturepl.com Did you know? Research suggests that the UK and northern Europe may have its own resident species of angle shades which is distinct from another that migrates here from further south. How to identify Resembles a dried up leaf, complete with crinkly wing edges and muted colours. Look for the triangular patterning that cuts through the centre of each wing and the long, sleek shape with wings folded. Size Wingspan 42-50mm. Where to find it Common and widespread across the UK. Can be found in woodland, gardens and the wider countryside. When to see it On the wing from May - October. Caterpillar foodplants A variety of herbaceous plants including nettles, docks, bramble and ivy as well as trees such as birch , hazel and oak . 2. Herald ( Scoliopteryx libatrix ) Herald moth. Credit: Malcolm Schuyl / Alamy Stock Photo How to identify Another master of disguise that blends in perfectly with fallen autumn leaves. Look for the warm orange-red areas in the centre of the forewings and the intricately scalloped wing edges. There is also a distinct pale line that runs across both wings. Size Wingspan 38-46mm. Where to find it Fairly common and found across the UK in a number of habitats, including gardens, parks and woodland. Sometimes encountered overwintering indoors or in dry sheds and outbuildings. When to see it On the wing from August - November. Caterpillar foodplants Poplars , aspen and willows . 3. Peppered moth ( Biston betularia ) Melanic (left) and light (right) forms of the peppered moth. Credit: Kim Taylor / naturepl.com Did you know? The dark form of this moth is thought to have become more common during the Industrial Revolution when it would have better blended in against soot-covered surfaces - the perfect example of natural selection in action. How to identify Unlike many other moths, this species rests with its wings spread and its abdomen exposed. It comes in two colour types: the 'normal' form is grey-white and peppered with dark speckles; the dark or melanic form is black all over. Size Wingspan 44-56mm. Where to find it Common and widespread across the UK. Can be found in urban areas as well as woodland, parks and gardens. When to see it On the wing from May - September. Caterpillar foodplants A number of deciduous trees and shrubs including beech , birch , hawthorn , blackthorn , oak , poplar , lime , sallows and bramble . 4. Old lady ( Mormo maura ) Old lady moth. Credit: Richard Becker / Alamy Stock Photo How to identify This moth is so named because the wing patterning is said to resemble that of a woman's shawl. Look for its dark, sombre colouration and scalloped wing edges. Its large size is what really gives it away. Size Wingspan 55-65mm. Where to find it Found across many parts of the UK but less common in Scotland and Northern Ireland. Likes damp environments and a frequent visitor to gardens. Sometimes shelters in sheds and outbuildings during the day. When to see it On the wing from July - August. Caterpillar foodplants Mainly feeds on blackthorn but also on other trees and shrubs. 5. Magpie moth ( Abraxas grossulariata ) Magpie moth. Credit: David Kjaer / naturepl.com How to identify An unmistakable and colourful moth that is frequently flushed from vegetation during the day. Look for the butterfly-like spread of white wings with black spots. It also has a yellow body and threads of yellow across the forewings. Size Wingspan 36-50mm. Where to find it Common and widespread across the UK. Readily found in gardens, woodland and hedgerows as well as moorland. When to see it On the wing from June - August. Caterpillar foodplants Feeds on a range of shrubs and plants including heather, gooseberry, currant, bramble , hawthorn , blackthorn and hazel . 6. Brimstone moth ( Opisthograptis luteolata ) Brimstone moth. Credit: Robert Thompson / naturepl.com How to identify Like its butterfly namesake, this moth is a bright canary yellow. Look for the brown markings on the leading edges of the forewings and the two silvery, crescent-shaped eye spots. Sometimes flushed from hedgerows during the day. Size Wingspan 28-42mm. Where to find it Common and widespread across the UK in woodland, hedgerows and gardens. When to see it On the wing from April - October. Caterpillar foodplants Trees and shrubs such as rowan , hawthorn and blackthorn . Want to brush up on your ID skills? Take a look at our range of wildlife swatch books for help with birds, butterflies and more. Shop now 7. Setaceous Hebrew character ( Xestia c-nigrum ) Setaceous Hebrew character moth. Credit: Amy Lewis / WTML How to identify While it may appear brown and drab at first glance, this moth has a unique identifying mark to help it stand out from the crowd. Look for the dark rectangles in the middle of each forewing which are bisected by a pale V-shape, said to resemble a character from the Hebrew alphabet. Size Wingspan 28-38mm. Where to find it Common and widespread across the UK, with numbers sometimes augmented by migrants. Found in gardens and woodland, and a reliable visitor to light traps. When to see it On the wing from May - October. Caterpillar foodplants Mainly nettles and dead-nettles but also other herbaceous plants including bedstraws. 8. Muslin moth ( Diaphora mendica ) Male muslin moth. Credit: Chris Mattison / naturepl.com Did you know? Male muslin moths fly by night, but the females are active during the day. How to identify Male muslin moths are powdery grey with black spots (and in Ireland are creamy brown), whereas females are white with black spots and can be confused with the white ermine moth ( Spilosoma lubricipeda ). Their patterning is said to resemble the ermine trims worn on the robes of the British peerage. Also look for their furry shoulders and attractive, feathery black antennae. Size Wingspan 28-38mm. Where to find it Common and widespread across England, Wales and Northern Ireland but scarce in Scotland. Found in gardens, hedgerows and open habitats. When to see it On the wing from May - June. Caterpillar foodplants Plants such as plantains, docks, dandelion, chickweed and heather. 9. Antler moth ( Cerapteryx graminis ) Antler moth. Credit: Robert Thompson / naturepl.com How to identify A chestnut brown moth with a distinctive pale line down the centre of each forewing which branches into an antler-like shape. The male has feathery antennae and is smaller than the female. Can be encountered flying during the day. Size Wingspan 24-34mm. Where to find it Common and widespread across the UK. A grassland specialist often found on moorland, pasture and downland. When to see it On the wing from July - September. Caterpillar foodplants Various grasses and some sedges and rushes. 10. Blood-vein ( Timandra comae ) Blood-vein moth. Credit: Robert Thompson / naturepl.com How to identify A pretty little moth that lives up to its name. It rests with wings spread, showing off the pointed tips of the hindwings. All four wings are fringed with pink at the trailing edges and are cut across the middle with an almost straight pink-red line. Often spotted during the day among low vegetation. Size Wingspan 30-46mm. Where to find it Common and widespread across England and Wales but absent from Northern Ireland and much of Scotland. Prefers damp habitats such as water meadows, marshes and riversides but also found in hedgerows, gardens and woodland rides. When to see it On the wing from May - September. Caterpillar foodplants Docks, sorrel and other low growing plants. 11. Buff-tip ( Phalera bucephala ) Buff-tip moth. Credit: Andy Sands / naturepl.com How to identify This cleverly camouflaged moth is banking on being mistaken for the shorn off end of a birch twig. Look for the straw-coloured areas at the ends of the wings and otherwise silvery colouration, plus the buff 'shoulders' at the front of the thorax. The wings are held close to the body giving the moth a somewhat cylindrical shape. Size Wingspan 44-68mm. Where to find it Widespread and common across the UK. Found in woodland, hedgerows and gardens. When to see it On the wing from June - July. Caterpillar foodplants A variety of deciduous trees including birch , sallows, oak and hazel , but also hornbeam , rowan , sycamore , alder , lime , beech and elm . 12. Flame shoulder ( Ochropleura plecta ) Flame shoulder moth. Credit: Andrew Darrington / Alamy Stock Photo How to identify An almost pinky-brown moth with distinctive creamy edges to the forewings - the 'flame shoulders' that give this moth its name. Look for the black border behind these pale areas and the two spots on either wing. Size Wingspan 25-30mm. Where to find it Common and widespread across the UK. Found in almost all habitats, including woodland and gardens. When to see it On the wing from May - September. Caterpillar foodplants Low-growing herbaceous plants such as plantains, docks and bedstraws. Create a wildlife haven in your garden Trees support an abundance of insect life - the food source for bats and other animals. Buy trees Learn more about moths and butterflies Blog UK hawk-moth identification and facts Amy Lewis • 21 Jun 2021 Hawk-moths are some of the largest and most recognisable moths in the UK. Learn to tell which is which with our visual guide to 10 of the most commonly encountered UK species. Start identifying Blog 11 types of day-flying moth in the UK: an identification guide Amy Lewis • 23 Apr 2021 Blog Common UK butterfly identification and facts Amy Lewis • 22 Jul 2019 Blog Hairy caterpillar identification: 16 common UK species Amy Lewis • 10 Jun 2021 Blog How to attract butterflies to your garden Danielle Wesley • 13 Mar 2020 Blog British caterpillars: how to identify 10 common species Hannah Vickers • 05 Apr 2019 Blog Hawk-moth caterpillar identification: eight UK species Amy Lewis • 21 Jul 2021 Keep in touch with the nature you love Sign up to stay connected Contact us Jobs Press and media Newsletter Publications Accessibility Cookie policy Privacy policy Terms and conditions The Woodland Trust is a charity registered in England and Wales (No. 294344) and in Scotland (No. SC038885). A non-profit-making company limited by guarantee. Registered in England No. 1982873. Woodland Trust (Enterprises) Limited, registered in England (No. 2296645), is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Woodland Trust. Registered office: Kempton Way, Grantham, Lincolnshire, NG31 6LL. The Woodland Trust and Woodland Trust Nature Detectives logos are registered trademarks. Images © protected Woodland Trust. VAT No. GB520 6111 04. Most Woodland Trust woods are certified to FSC® standards by the Soil Association. Certificate number SA-FM/COC-001270, Licence code FSC-C009406. close Search our site