Skip to content Accessibility help Search CKS… Skip to content Menu Guidance Standards and indicators Life sciences British National Formulary (BNF) British National Formulary for Children (BNFC) Clinical Knowledge Summaries (CKS) Health topics A to Z Specialities What's new About CKS About NICE CKS Health topics A to Z Pelvic inflammatory disease Management Scenario: Management Pelvic inflammatory disease: Scenario: Management of pelvic inflammatory disease Last revised in April 2022 Covers the primary care management of acute pelvic inflammatory disease. Scenario: Management Summary Have I got the right topic? How up-to-date is this topic? Goals and outcome measures Background information Diagnosis Management Scenario: Management Prescribing information Supporting evidence How this topic was developed References On this page Managing suspected PID Basis for recommendation Antibiotic treatment Basis for recommendation Managing sexual partners Basis for recommendation Information and advice Basis for recommendation Follow up Basis for recommendation Scenario: Management of pelvic inflammatory disease From age 13 years onwards (Female). How should I manage a woman with suspected pelvic inflammatory disease? Admit urgently if: Ectopic pregnancy cannot be ruled out, or the woman is pregnant. Symptoms and signs are severe (such as nausea, vomiting, and a fever greater than 38°C). There are signs of pelvic peritonitis. A surgical emergency (such as acute appendicitis) cannot be ruled out. A tubo-ovarian abscess is suspected. The woman is unwell and there is diagnostic doubt. The woman is unable to follow or tolerate an outpatient treatment regimen . Consider seeking specialist advice if: Peri-hepatitis ( Fitz–Hugh–Curtis syndrome ) is suspected. The woman is immunocompromised (for example, is HIV positive or taking immunosuppressants). Admit women who have HIV only if they have clinically severe pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). Consider discussing with a genito-urinary medicine (GUM) specialist or gynaecologist if there is doubt regarding whether admission is necessary. For all other women: Ensure that investigations have been arranged as appropriate. Ideally the woman should be referred to a GUM clinic or other local specialist sexual health service to facilitate screening for infections and for contact tracing. Ensure that sexual partners of the woman with PID (current and recent partners [within the last 6 months]) are traced and managed appropriately. Prescribe drug treatment. Provide pain relief with ibuprofen or paracetamol. See the CKS topics on Analgesia - mild-to-moderate pain and NSAIDs - prescribing issues for more information. Start empirical antibiotics as soon as a presumptive diagnosis of PID is made clinically. Ideally, the woman should be screened for other STIs before commencing antibiotics so that a diagnosis can be made and is not compromised. However, starting antibiotics is a priority if PID is suspected and should not be delayed whilst awaiting an appointment and/or swab results. Ensure that sexual partners of the woman are managed appropriately. For women infected with HIV, offer the same treatment as women who are not infected. PID should be managed in conjunction with their HIV physician. If a woman with intrauterine contraception (copper intrauterine device [IUD] or levonorgestrel intrauterine system [LNG-IUS]) presents with PID: Discuss with the woman, and consider removing the device if she requests its removal or if her symptoms have not resolved within 72 hours. If a decision is made to remove the device, consider the need for emergency hormonal contraception. For more information, see the CKS topic on Contraception - emergency . See the section on STI or pelvic inflammatory disease in the CKS topic on Contraception - assessment for information on suitable methods of contraception for women with who have current, or a history of, PID. If the woman develops pelvic pain and has had actinomyces-like organisms (ALOs) identified on a smear in the past: Take endocervical swabs. Seek urgent specialist advice regarding treatment. Consider removal of the intrauterine contraception. Give appropriate information and advice , including advice on contraception. Review the woman appropriately. Basis for recommendation These recommendations are based largely on the British Association for Sexual Health and HIV (BASHH) guideline 2018 United Kingdom national guideline for the management of pelvic inflammatory disease [ BASHH, 2018 ] and the European guideline for the management of pelvic inflammatory disease [ Ross, 2017 ]. Admission and specialist advice Expert opinion in the European guideline is that mild and moderate cases of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) should be managed in primary care. However, the need for admission for parenteral treatment, observation, further investigation, and/or possible surgical intervention should be considered in certain situations [ Ross, 2017 ]. For example: Pregnant women with PID should be admitted to hospital, as intravenous antibiotics are required due to the increased risk of maternal and fetal morbidity and pre-term delivery [ BASHH, 2018 ]. Women with HIV may experience more severe symptoms of PID, so HIV positive women with severe PID should be admitted to hospital [ BASHH, 2018 ]. Expert opinion in the BASHH guideline is that although laparoscopic division of adhesions is sometimes performed in women with Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome, there is insufficient trial evidence to make any recommendations other than giving the usual treatment for PID [ BASHH, 2018 ]. CKS therefore recommends seeking specialist advice if peri-hepatitis is suspected. Importance of prompt treatment It is likely that delaying treatment increases the risk of the PID becoming worse, as well as the risk of long-term complications (such as ectopic pregnancy, subfertility, or chronic pelvic pain) [ Ross, 2017 ; BASHH, 2018 ]. BASHH advises that there should be a low threshold for commencing an empirical antibiotic (before the results of tests are available) because of the risk of serious complications if treatment is delayed. This is particularly important in women younger than 25 years of age because there is a higher incidence of PID in this age group [ BASHH, 2018 ]. Managing women with HIV Women with HIV may experience more severe symptoms of PID but will usually respond to the standard antibiotic regimens. No change in treatment from that recommended for women without HIV infection is required [ BASHH, 2018 ]. Removal of intrauterine contraception (IUC) Evidence on whether or not to remove IUC in a woman who has PID is limited and conflicting. BASHH recommends that [ BASHH, 2018 ]: In women with mild to moderate PID, the IUC may be left in situ. However, a review should be performed after 48–72 hours and the device removed if significant clinical improvement has not occurred. The need for emergency hormonal contraception following removal of the IUC should always be considered. The European guideline on PID recommends that [ Ross, 2017 ]: Removal of the IUC should be considered, based on evidence from a single randomized controlled trial that suggested removal may be associated with better short-term improvement in symptoms and signs. However, a subsequent systematic review concluded that there is little difference in outcomes for women with mild-to-moderate PID who retain their IUC in situ during treatment. Presence of actinomyces-like organisms (ALOs) The role of ALOs in infection in women using IUC is unclear. Actinomyces israelii is a commensal organism in the female genital tract and although these organisms may be found on cervical smears or swabs, their presence is not diagnostic or predictive of disease [ FSRH, 2015 ]. The Faculty of Sexual and Reproductive Healthcare (FSRH) advises that [ FSRH, 2015 ]: Insertion or reinsertion of an IUC can be carried out in asymptomatic women with ALOs. There is no need to remove IUC in asymptomatic women with ALOs. If a woman with PID wishes to continue using an IUC, there is no need for routine removal and appropriate antibiotic treatment can be initiated. IUC removal is not routinely required in women with PID, but it should be removed if there is no response to treatment (approximately 72 hours). Which antibiotics should I prescribe for the treatment of pelvic inflammatory disease? If the risk of gonococcal infection is low: Prescribe any of the following first-line regimens (taking into account factors such as the age of the person, contraindications and cautions, possible adverse effects, and local antimicrobial sensitivity patterns): Ceftriaxone 1 g as a single intramuscular (IM) dose, followed by oral doxycycline 100 mg twice daily plus oral metronidazole 400 mg twice daily for 14 days. Oral ofloxacin 400 mg twice daily plus oral metronidazole 400 mg twice daily for 14 days. Levofloxacin (500 mg once daily for 14 days) may be used as a more convenient alternative to ofloxacin. Oral moxifloxacin 400mg once daily for 14 days. If the initial test for Mycoplasma genitalium is positive, treatment with moxifloxacin is recommended as it currently has good microbiological activity against M. genitalium . If none of the first-line regimens are suitable, consider the following alternative regimen: Ceftriaxone 1 g as a single IM dose, followed by oral azithromycin 1 g per week for 2 weeks. There is less evidence to support this regimen. If the risk of gonococcal infection is high (for example the woman's partner has gonorrhoea, her symptoms and signs are clinically severe, or she has had sexual contact whilst abroad): Prescribe ceftriaxone 1 g as a single IM dose, followed by oral doxycycline 100 mg twice daily plus oral metronidazole 400 mg twice daily for 14 days. Be aware that: Regimens containing ofloxacin, moxifloxacin, or azithromycin are not recommended in women at high risk of gonococcal pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). Replacing IM ceftriaxone with an oral cephalosporin (for example cefixime) in the above regimens is not recommended. A regimen of metronidazole and doxycycline without IM ceftriaxone is not recommended. If there is a risk of a very early pregnancy (too early for a pregnancy test to be positive): Consider starting empirical antibiotic treatment as the risk of giving any of the recommended antibiotic regimens at this stage of pregnancy is justified by the need to provide effective treatment and the low risk to the fetus. For women infected with HIV: Offer the same treatment as women who are not infected with HIV. PID should be managed in conjunction with their HIV physician. For information on the recommended antibiotics, including contraindications, cautions, adverse effects, and drug interactions, see the section on Prescribing information . Basis for recommendation The recommended antibiotic regimens are evidence-based, practical for use in primary care, and are recommended in the British Association for Sexual Health and HIV (BASHH) guideline 2018 United Kingdom national guideline for the management of pelvic inflammatory disease [ BASHH, 2018 ], the British Association for Sexual Health and HIV (BASHH) United Kingdom National Guideline for the Management of Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (2019 Interim Update) [ BASHH, 2019 ], the Public Health England (PHE) guideline Management and treatment of common infections. Antibiotic guidance for primary care: for consultation and local adaptation [ PHE, 2017 ], and the European guideline for the management of pelvic inflammatory disease [ Ross, 2017 ]. The recommended regimens are likely to be effective against the most likely pathogens involved ( Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Mycoplasma genitalium , and anaerobes). Treating pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) Based on good evidence for the effectiveness of antibiotic treatment in preventing the long-term complications of PID (such as ectopic pregnancy, infertility, and chronic pelvic pain) and the lack of definitive diagnostic criteria for PID, experts recommend a low threshold for empiric treatment of PID. Broad spectrum antibiotic treatment is required to cover the wide range of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria commonly isolated from the upper genital tract in women with PID [ Ross, 2017 ; BASHH, 2018 ]. Managing women at low risk of risk of gonococcal infection Recommended antibiotics Some of the best evidence for the effectiveness of antibiotic treatment in preventing the long-term complications of PID comes from the Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Evaluation and Clinical Health (PEACH) randomized trial, where women were treated with cefoxitin followed by doxycycline. The results showed that pregnancy rates after 3 years were similar or higher than those in the general population [ Ness, 2002 ; BASHH, 2018 ]. Cefoxitin is not readily available in the UK. Therefore ceftriaxone, which has a similar spectrum of activity, is recommended [ BASHH, 2018 ]. Ceftriaxone provides microbiological cover for N. gonorrhoeae but also other aerobic and anaerobic bacteria associated with PID. Ofloxacin is effective for the treatment of C. trachomatis . Levofloxacin, the L-isomer of ofloxacin, may be used as a more convenient alternative to ofloxacin (500 mg once daily for 14 days). The efficacy of moxifloxacin for PID is supported by evidence from three large randomized controlled trials (RCTs) [ BASHH, 2018 ]. Although there is a potential risk of serious liver reactions occurring with moxifloxacin, they are uncommon (12 cases reported in the UK from 2003–2016 with no deaths), and moxifloxacin is generally well tolerated. Metronidazole is included in some regimens to improve coverage for anaerobic bacteria. Managing women with a positive test for M. genitalium Of the recommended PID treatment regimens, moxifloxacin provides the highest microbiological activity against M. genitalium . Treatment failure following the use of any of the recommended regimens has been reported but is least likely following treatment with moxifloxacin. Single doses of azithromycin have the potential to induce macrolide resistance in M. genitalium and, if possible, use should be avoided in women with a positive test for M. genitalium . Choice of treatment regimen There is no clear evidence of the superiority of any one of the suggested first-line regimens over the others. Therefore, the choice of treatment regimen may be influenced by factors such as [ Ross, 2017 ; BASHH, 2018 ]: Robust evidence on local antimicrobial sensitivity patterns. Robust evidence on the local epidemiology of specific infections in this setting. Patient preference and compliance. Severity of the disease. Age of the person (sexually transmitted pathogens are less likely to be the cause of PID in older women). Contraindications, cautions, and adverse effects (for example, quinilones [ofloxacin, levofloxacin, and moxifloxacin] are not licensed for use in people younger than 18 years of age). Local antibiotic stewardship guidelines. Cost. Alternative regimen of intramuscular ceftriaxone and oral azithromycin BASHH advises that this regimen should be reserved for when other regimens are not appropriate, as clinical trial evidence is limited. Managing women at high risk of r isk of gonococcal infection Azithromycin is not recommended for gonococcal PID because [ BASHH, 2018 ]: It is used to ‘protect’ the need for cephalosporin therapy in order to restrict the development of N. gonorrhoeae resistance. However, the number of cases of gonococcal PID in the UK is very small (2–3% of all PID). Therefore, its use is unlikely to affect the levels of antibiotic resistance. Use of the recommended ‘non-azithromycin containing’ regimens is clinically effective. Adherence rates for existing two week PID treatment regimens are poor. The addition of azithromycin has the potential to cause early discontinuation of medication due to gastrointestinal adverse effects. Ofloxacin and moxifloxacin should be avoided in women who are at high risk of gonococcal PID because of high levels of quinolone resistance. Treatments not recommended Replacing intramuscular ceftriaxone with an oral cephalosporin (for example cefixime) is not recommended because [ BASHH, 2018 ]: There is no clinical trial evidence to support this. Tissue levels are likely to be lower with an oral cephalosporin, which might impact on efficacy. There have been reports of decreasing susceptibility of N. gonorrhoeae to cephalosporins; therefore, parenteral-based regimens are recommended when gonococcal PID is suspected (to maximise tissue levels and overcome low level resistance). The use of doxycycline plus metronidazole in the absence of ceftriaxone is not recommended because [ BASHH, 2018 ]: The evidence base is limited. Previous trials have reported significant rates of treatment failure. The addition of ceftriaxone improves treatment outcome. Risk of a very early pregnancy (too early for a pregnancy test to be positive) Although PID in pregnancy is uncommon, it is associated with an increase in both maternal and fetal morbidity. BASHH advises that in very early pregnancy (prior to a pregnancy test becoming positive), the use of the same antibiotic regimens recommended for non pregnant women is justified by the need to provide effective therapy and the low risk to the fetus [ BASHH, 2018 ]. How should I manage sexual partners? Current partners and recent partners (within the last 6 months) of women with pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) should be contacted and offered advice, screening, treatment, and contact tracing. Ideally they should be seen in a genito-urinary medicine (GUM) clinic or a primary care facility with equivalent expertise, for screening, treatment, and contact tracing. However, they may need to be managed in primary care if they refuse or are unable to attend a sexual health clinic, or if there is likely to be an unacceptable delay in accessing specialist services. Screen for chlamydia and gonorrhoea. See the section on Screening for chlamydia in the CKS topic on Chlamydia - uncomplicated genital and the section on Confirmation of diagnosis in the CKS topic on Gonorrhoea . Whilst awaiting the results, offer the partner(s) empirical treatment with a broad spectrum antibiotic, such as doxycycline 100mg twice daily for 1 week. If chlamydia or gonorrhoea is diagnosed in the partner(s), treat both the partner(s) and the woman appropriately. If the woman has confirmed Mycoplasma genitalium infection, offer the partner(s) testing for M. genitalium (local availability of M. genitalium testing currently varies). If it is positive, treat both the partner(s) and the woman appropriately. Advise sexual abstinence until both the woman with PID and her partner(s) have completed the course of treatment. Advise that a barrier method of contraception (such as condoms, diaphragms, or caps) should be used if sexual intercourse cannot be avoided. Basis for recommendation These recommendations are based largely on the British Association for Sexual Health and HIV (BASHH) guideline 2018 United Kingdom national guideline for the management of pelvic inflammatory disease [ BASHH, 2018 ] and the European guideline for the management of pelvic inflammatory disease [ Ross, 2017 ]. Empirical treatment with a broad spectrum antibiotic BASHH recommends that broad spectrum empirical treatment should also be offered to male partners of women with pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) because many cases of PID are not associated with gonorrhoea, chlamydia, or Mycoplasma genitalium . Doxycycline is recommended to reduce exposure to macrolides, which have been associated with increased resistance in M. genitalium . What information and advice should I give the woman? Explain: The importance of completing the course of antibiotics (even if swabs are negative) in order to reduce the risk of long-term complications of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), such as infertility, ectopic pregnancy, and chronic pelvic pain. That after treatment, fertility is usually maintained but there is still a risk of future long-term complications , such as infertility, ectopic pregnancy, and chronic pelvic pain. The importance of screening for other sexually transmitted infections (STIs). The need for contact tracing, and screening and treatment of sexual partners to prevent reinfection. Give contraception advice. Explain the need to use a barrier method of contraception (such as a condom) until both the woman and her partner(s) have completed treatment. For more information on barrier methods of contraception, see the CKS topic on Contraception - barrier methods and spermicides . Advise that future use of a barrier method of contraception will greatly reduce the risk of reinfection and protect against other STIs. Provide additional sources of information on PID. Patient information on PID are available from: NHS A-Z ( www.nhs.uk ): Pelvic inflammatory disease . The British Association for Sexual Health and HIV (BASHH, www.bashh.org ): A guide for Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID) . The Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (RCOG, www.rcog.org.uk ): Information for you: Acute pelvic inflammatory disease . Basis for recommendation These recommendations are based largely on the British Association for Sexual Health and HIV (BASHH) guideline 2018 United Kingdom national guideline for the management of pelvic inflammatory disease [ BASHH, 2018 ] and the European guideline for the management of pelvic inflammatory disease [ Ross, 2017 ]. How should I follow up a woman after treatment for pelvic inflammatory disease? Review the woman within 72 hours. There should be demonstrable clinical improvement (such as a reduction in abdominal tenderness, and a reduction in uterine, adnexal, and cervical motion tenderness). If there has been little or no improvement, consider admitting the woman to hospital or review the diagnosis. Check the antibiotic sensitivities from swab results. Adjust antibiotics treatment if necessary. Continue treatment even if swabs are negative. If a woman with mild or moderate pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is unable to tolerate metronidazole, discontinue metronidazole and advise the woman to continue with the other antibiotics in the regimen. Consider further review, either in clinic or by phone, 2–4 weeks after treatment to: Check compliance with, and response to, treatment. Confirm that sexual contacts have been screened and treated. Discuss the potential sequelae of PID (such as infertility, ectopic pregnancy, and chronic pelvic pain). Ensure repeat pregnancy test, if clinically indicated. Test of cure is only necessary if: Initial testing for gonorrhoea was positive. Repeat testing should be routinely performed after 2–4 weeks. Initial testing for chlamydia was positive. Repeat testing after 3–5 weeks is appropriate for women who have persisting symptoms or where compliance with antibiotics and/or tracing of sexual contacts indicate the possibility of persisting or recurrent infection. Initial test for Mycoplasma genitalium was positive. Repeat testing should be performed after about 4 weeks. Symptoms persist after treatment. Antibiotic resistance is likely (particularly in cases of gonorrhoea). Poor compliance with treatment is suspected, or the treatment has not been tolerated. There is a possibility of reinfection (that is, further contact with untreated partners). Sensitivity testing has not been undertaken or has indicated resistance. Basis for recommendation These recommendations are based largely on the British Association for Sexual Health and HIV (BASHH) guideline 2018 United Kingdom national guideline for the management of pelvic inflammatory disease [ BASHH, 2018 ] and the European guideline for the management of pelvic inflammatory disease [ Ross, 2017 ]. Admitting the woman if there has been little or no improvement after 72 hours Expert opinion in the BASHH guideline is that failure to improve substantially after 72 hours suggests a need for further investigation, intravenous treatment, or surgical intervention [ BASHH, 2018 ]. Stopping metronidazole if it is not tolerated Although anaerobes may play a role in the pathogenesis of PID, they are probably of more importance in women who have severe PID. Based on studies which have not included metronidazole but have had good outcomes, experts suggest that if PID is not severe and metronidazole is not tolerated, it may be stopped [ Ross, 2017 ; BASHH, 2018 ]. Test of cure The BASHH guideline and the European guideline recommend repeat testing if initial testing is positive for gonorrhoea, chlamydia, or Mycoplasma genitalium [ BASHH, 2018 ]. Other recommendations on when tests of cure are necessary are based on the European guideline [ Ross, 2017 ]. BASHH highlights that the optimal time for testing after starting treatment is unknown, but recommends 4 weeks based on expert opinion [ BASHH, 2018 ]. The content on the NICE Clinical Knowledge Summaries site (CKS) is the copyright of Clarity Informatics Limited (trading as Agilio Software Primary Care) . By using CKS, you agree to the licence set out in the CKS End User Licence Agreement . Back to top Guidance Standards and indicators Life sciences British National Formulary (BNF) British National Formulary for Children (BNFC) Clinical Knowledge Summaries (CKS) Knowledge resources About NICE Into practice Get involved with NICE Jobs News Newsletters and alerts Contact us Leave feedback Reusing our content NICE UK Open Content Licence Syndicate our content Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Freedom of information Glossary Terms and conditions Privacy notice Cookies © NICE 2023 . All rights reserved. Subject to Notice of rights .