Menu Visit Verywell Mind's homepage 'I Hate Life': What to Do If Nothing Makes You Happy Mental Health A-Z Addiction ADHD Bipolar Disorder Depression Race and Identity PTSD View All Self-Improvement Stress Management Happiness Meditation Brain Health Relationships Online Therapy View All Psychology Theories History and Biographies Student Resources Therapy Emotions Sleep and Dreaming View All Podcast Self-Improvement Motivation Mental Strength Family & Relationships Anxiety & Depression Addiction View All Trending Mental Health Verywell Mind Insights The Verywell Mind 25 Dads and Mental Health About Us Editorial Process Meet Our Review Board Crisis Support Search Search Clear GO More in Depression Causes Living With Symptoms and Diagnosis depression diagnosis Treatment Types Childhood Depression Suicide View More Mental Health A-Z Addiction ADHD Bipolar Disorder Depression Race and Identity PTSD View All Self-Improvement Stress Management Happiness Meditation Brain Health Relationships Online Therapy View All Psychology Theories History and Biographies Student Resources Therapy Emotions Sleep and Dreaming View All Podcast Self-Improvement Motivation Mental Strength Family & Relationships Anxiety & Depression Addiction View All Trending Mental Health Verywell Mind Insights The Verywell Mind 25 Dads and Mental Health View All About Us Editorial Process Privacy Policy Contact Us Verywell Health Visit Verywell Fit's homepage Visit Verywell Family's homepage Verywell Mind's content is for informational and educational purposes only. Our website is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Ⓒ 2023 Dotdash Media, Inc. — All rights reserved Depression Causes Small Ways to Feel Better When You're Depressed Guide Small Ways to Feel Better When You're Depressed Guide Overview Understanding Your Emotions What Does Depression Feel Like? Identify Your Emotions Cope With Your Emotions How to Feel Better When You Feel Lonely When You Feel Emotional When You Feel Unappreciated When You Feel a Loss of Interest When You Feel Irritable When You Feel Tired When You Feel Worthless When You Feel Anxious When You Feel Unhappy When You Feel Helpless When You Feel Hopeless 'I Hate Life': What to Do If Nothing Makes You Happy By Arlin Cuncic, MA Arlin Cuncic, MA Arlin Cuncic, MA, is the author of "Therapy in Focus: What to Expect from CBT for Social Anxiety Disorder" and "7 Weeks to Reduce Anxiety." She has a Master's degree in psychology. Learn about our editorial process Updated on May 16, 2022 Medically reviewed Verywell Mind articles are reviewed by board-certified physicians and mental healthcare professionals. Medical Reviewers confirm the content is thorough and accurate, reflecting the latest evidence-based research. Content is reviewed before publication and upon substantial updates. Learn more . by David Susman, PhD Medically reviewed by David Susman, PhD David Susman, PhD is a licensed clinical psychologist with experience providing treatment to individuals with mental illness and substance use concerns. Learn about our Medical Review Board Print Tara Moore / Getty Images Table of Contents View All Table of Contents Change Your Mindset End Rumination and Engage in Problem Solving Get Some Exercise Develop Healthy Habits Practice Meditation and Yoga Reconnect With Joy Consider Professional Help Next in Small Ways to Feel Better When You're Depressed Guide 7 Things to Do If You Feel Helpless Do you find that nothing makes you happy anymore? Maybe you've stopped doing things you used to enjoy, can't get out of bed in the morning, or feel hopeless or lost about your future . Whether these feelings are transient or a sign of a deeper underlying problem, it's important not to let them fester. What might start out as situational depression could turn into something long-lasting. If you are finding that nothing makes you happy and wondering what to do about it, below are some ideas to help you pull yourself out of the state you are finding yourself in. I Hate People: Why You Feel This Way and What to Do Change Your Mindset It might sound too simplistic, but for some people with only transient feelings of a lack of enjoyment, changing your mindset might be all that is required. If you feel that you are putting off feeling happy for some time in the future, it's important to stop using this as an excuse to avoid living your life now. While bad things may have happened to you in the past, or you may not have everything that you want in your life right now, everyone has a story of some sort that weighs heavy on their heart. How you think about your story and how you go out into the world and live with it is what will set you apart. End Rumination and Engage in Problem Solving Next, if you find that you are ready to change your mindset about how you are feeling, what are the concrete steps you can take to actually get there? One of the things that people who are feeling down tend to do is to ruminate about how they are feeling. Is that you? Do you think a lot about how you don't enjoy things anymore? Rumination is a habit that can worsen low mood or feelings of lack of enjoyment. Try to be aware of your thoughts and watch for times that you spiral into negative thinking. Ask yourself, why am I upset? What do I need to acknowledge, evaluate, or change? While complaining about your situation or ruminating might feel like you are doing something, in reality, you are only making yourself feel worse. Identify problems that you can solve, and take action on them. In taking action, you will start to feel better. Get Some Exercise Try to engage in exercise at least a few times a week, ideally for 30 minutes each time. Exercise causes your brain to release endorphins , which will naturally make you feel more upbeat and happier. Develop Healthy Habits Similar to getting regular exercise, make sure that you are engaging in other healthy habits in your life. Are you drinking enough water each day? Do you eat healthy food each day and take vitamins regularly? Junk food, caffeine, alcohol, etc. will serve to worsen a bad mood, make you feel sluggish, and keep you in a state of low mood. On the other hand, healthy habits will give you a solid foundation on which to build back your joy in life. Give yourself a chance to feel better by making sure you are doing basic things to maintain your health and mental health. Practice Meditation and Yoga If you still find that you can't reconnect with joyful things in your life, try adding in a regular meditation and/or yoga practice along with breathing exercises. Having a regular practice will help you to release negative emotions and stress, leading you to feel more peaceful, joyful, and ready for clarity in your life. Reconnect With Joy At this point, you might be ready to start adding back joyful activities into your life. What did you used to enjoy doing? Whether it was doing art projects, working in your garden, reading, watching movies, or other activities, make a point of dedicating a bit of time each day or week to the things that bring you joy. While you may not immediately feel like doing these things, taking action to add them back into your life will eventually help to boost your mood and bring back the joy you once felt. And, if there are barriers to you doing the things you used to enjoy, see if there are new activities that can take their place or other ways to go about doing what you used to do. For example, if you used to enjoy lunch dates with friends, but no longer have the ability to meet with them, see if there's another social activity that you can take up and find enjoyable. Press Play for Advice on Coping With Depression Hosted by Editor-in-Chief and therapist Amy Morin, LCSW, this episode of The Verywell Mind Podcast shares an exercise that can help you feel better when you feel depressed. Click below to listen now. Follow Now : Apple Podcasts / Spotify / Google Podcasts Consider Professional Help Finally, what do you do if you've tried all of the above and you still find that nothing makes you happy? At that point, you may wish to consider enlisting the help of your doctor or a mental health professional. Loss of pleasure and motivation can be a sign of clinical depression , which can sometimes have a biological cause. Depression can be treated with therapy and/or medication so that your mind has a chance to feel positive again (through the release of positive chemicals in your brain). A Word From Verywell If you find that nothing makes you happy anymore, start with your mindset, address your physical and mental health, restart activities that you previously found enjoyable, and then take stock of your situation. If you still feel a lack of enjoyment or motivation, you may be living with clinical depression, which is not a problem you can solve on your own. Remember that there is no shame in reaching out for help if you need it. Especially if you have tried all of the previous suggestions without any improvement, it's important to reach out to your doctor or a mental health professional for help. 7 Things to Do If You Feel Helpless Sources Verywell Mind uses only high-quality sources, including peer-reviewed studies, to support the facts within our articles. Read our editorial process to learn more about how we fact-check and keep our content accurate, reliable, and trustworthy. Carter C. What to Do When You Are Unhappy . Puskar M. Nothing Makes me Happy Anymore, Could I Be Depressed ? By Arlin Cuncic, MA Arlin Cuncic, MA, is the author of "Therapy in Focus: What to Expect from CBT for Social Anxiety Disorder" and "7 Weeks to Reduce Anxiety." She has a Master's degree in psychology. See Our Editorial Process Meet Our Review Board Share Feedback Was this page helpful? Thanks for your feedback! What is your feedback? Other Helpful Report an Error Submit Related Articles Please Help Me: What to Do When You Need Help 'What Is the Point of Life?': Why You Might Feel This Way Sadness vs. Clinical Depression Victim Mentality: Definition, Causes, and Ways to Cope Arrival Fallacy: Will Reaching a Goal Make You Happy? Peace of Mind: How to Find and Keep It I Hate People: Why You Feel This Way and What to Do How to Improve Your Self-Worth and Why It's Important What It Means if You're Bored In Your Relationship Why You Should Take Care of Your Body and Health Why Don't I Care About Anything? Friday Fix: 5 Self-Care Mistakes That Leave You Emotionally Exhausted Dealing With No Support from Family When You're Depressed Friday Fix: What the Sentimental Items You Keep Say About You How to Make Yourself Feel Better Mentally 'I Hate My Family:' What to Do If You Feel This Way Visit Verywell Mind's homepage Daily Tips for a Healthy Mind to Your Inbox Sign Up You're in! Thank you, {{form.email}}, for signing up. There was an error. Please try again. Mental Health A-Z Self-Improvement Psychology Trending Voices The Verywell Mind Podcast Meet Our Review Board About Us Editorial Process Diversity Pledge Privacy Policy In the News Advertise Terms of Service Careers Contact EU Privacy Crisis Support Follow Us instagram tiktok facebook twitter flipboard Verywell Health Visit Verywell Fit's homepage Visit Verywell Family's homepage Verywell Mind's content is for informational and educational purposes only. Our website is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Ⓒ 2023 Dotdash Media, Inc. — All rights reserved Verywell Mind is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family. When you visit the site, Dotdash Meredith and its partners may store or retrieve information on your browser, mostly in the form of cookies. Cookies collect information about your preferences and your devices and are used to make the site work as you expect it to, to understand how you interact with the site, and to show advertisements that are targeted to your interests. You can find out more about our use, change your default settings, and withdraw your consent at any time with effect for the future by visiting Cookies Settings , which can also be found in the footer of the site. Cookies Settings Reject All Accept All