Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 39 39 Woodend, 7 Wellknowe Road, Thorntonhall See map Offers Over £875,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 09/06/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×4 BATHROOMS ×2 SIZE 2,734 sq. ft. (254 sq. m.) TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Woodend is a quintessential Victorian detached house displaying some beautiful architectural features and set within charming garden grounds within the affluent village of Thorntonhall. Built circa 1890, displaying outstanding architectural features and significantly extended circa 1910. Set within particularly broad fronted garden grounds with secluded and private rear gardens with driveway and garage. An uttering charming and delightful family home displaying an impressive frontage. Superbly interior designed and presented to the market in immaculate order inside and out. Property description Description Woodend is the embodiment of classic, Victorian architecture with the house dating to circa 1890, and the property was extended in circa 1910 with an addition of an exquisite Italianette drawing room. The architectural merits are almost too many to mention as the house delivers outstanding decorative external stonework, detailed decorative plasterwork and intricate stucco ceiling work, stunning carved panelled doors, focal point fireplaces, and lovely sash and casement window formations in addition to decorative stain glass windows. The ground floor accommodation entered via vestibule leads into a splendid reception hallway with decorative ceiling work, lincrusta panelled walls and bespoke panelled doors giving access to home office with dual aspects and focal point fireplace, TV/snug room, spacious dining/family room nicely open to a hand painted bespoke kitchen with appliances, magnificent 23 foot by 20 foot drawing room with barrelled/vaulted ceiling, focal point fireplace and decorative window seat, large walk in store in addition to a wine cellar which gives access to kitchen. The ground floor is completed by rear hallway with walk in pantry and under stair storage, rear back door area with boot room/store and cloaks area and useful downstairs shower room/WC. Broad staircase leads to a delightful three quarter landing area with bay window projection to the rear with decorative shutters, main family bathroom with shower and the upper landing gives access to four double sized bedrooms, one offering access to large walk in attic space providing storage and off the upper landing there is a box room which is currently fitted as a dressing area. It should be noted that the interior has been beautifully enhanced by a stylish interior design program with notable features including impressive flooring, wall coverings, and quality carpeting in addition to original flooring. The property has a system of gas central heating (boiler fitted 2017), security alarm system and a mixture of original, sash and casement windows and replaced window systems. Woodend is set within superb broad fronted garden grounds with expansive lawn area, large driveway offering parking for multiple vehicles with secure gated access to both sides leading to a fully enclosed garden with al fresco patio area, lawn area and planting area. Garage store with an additional tool shed/log store. EER Band E. Local Area Thorntonhall is a quiet leafy village displaying a variety of individual and impressive detached residences and is widely regarded as one of Glasgow's premier addresses. Excellent shopping facilities are available in East Kilbride or the nearby suburbs of Clarkston, Giffnock and Newton Mearns, with a number of major supermarkets including Waitrose and Whole Foods along with a wide range of exclusive brand shops in addition to Silverburn Shopping Centre. They also provide a variety of leisure and sporting facilities including tennis, rugby, bowling, equestrian and a selection of well-regarded golf courses. It also has transport links to the city centre and beyond by way of its own train station. Directions From our office on Ayr Road, Newton Mearns travel city bound to Eastwood Toll taking the third exit on the right onto the A727 Eastwoodmains Road and continue onwards through the traffic lights to Clarkston Toll, proceed onwards on Busby Road to the Sheddens roundabout, bear left on Busby Road and proceed through the village of Busby on the Main Street proceeding onwards through the traffic lights under the railway bridge and continue onwards heading out of Busby onto East Kilbride road. On reaching the roundabout turn right onto Peel Road and continue into the village of Thorntonhall, proceeding along Peel Road through the roundabouts and turn left onto Braehead Road, continue onwards turning first right into Wellknowe Avenue, proceed to the end and the property is situated immediately on the left hand side fronting onto Wellknowe Road. Brochures Brochure 1 Web Details Read more Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent Woodend, 7 Wellknowe Road, Thorntonhall Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Thorntonhall Station 0.2 miles Busby Station 1.0 miles Hairmyres Station 1.2 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Corum, Newton Mearns 134 Ayr Road, Newton Mearns, Glasgow, G77 6EG Experience the difference Once, estate agents were estate agents. Nowadays, they're often lawyers, mortgage brokers and letting agents too - but not at Corum. We work exclusively in estate agency, meaning we devote 100% of our time doing what our customers want: securing the best price for their property. The agency's original founding partners worked together at one of the largest estate agencies in the country, until a company takeover led to a wholesale focus on Financial Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Corum, Newton Mearns 134 Ayr Road, Newton Mearns, Glasgow, G77 6EG More properties from this agent Call agent : 0141 673 1647 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference NM4093. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Corum, Newton Mearns . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0141 673 1647 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho