Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 40 1 40 1 Elvetham Road, Birmingham, B15 See map Fixed Price £1,400,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 19/05/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×2 SIZE 30,899 sq. ft. (2,871 sq. m.) TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Sought after location Fully renovated throughout Detached period property Landscaped garden 5 large bedrooms 3 large receptions rooms Property description Handsome Fawsley is steeped in history – just check out the coveted blue plaque on the frontage, awarded by the Birmingham Civic society, which commemorates Industrialist and co-founder of the Birmingham Shakespeare Library, Samuel Timmins, who had the Victorian home built in 1851. Situated in the Edgbaston Conservation Area, Fawsley has quite the country feel. It’s nestled on a leafy road, with no through traffic, adding to the sense of tranquillity. In fact, so peaceful is it, you could well be forgiven for forgetting you are only a mere few minutes walk from the very heart of the city. There’s ample parking on the driveway for two cars, and the attractive entrance porch leads through to the large hallway with its stunning, original Minton tiled floor and grand vinyl stag. You’ll find a downstairs WC just off here, adorned in Timmins’ tool catalogue wallpaper, and a wine cellar complete with original racks and labels, alongside a Victorian drying rack. Fawsley has been extensively renovated with love and immaculate attention to detail, whilst sustainable solar panels and Carbon friendly Biomass Boiler provide all the benefits of eco living. Period features abound in the three spacious reception rooms, from roaring, open fires, and original cornicing and ceiling roses to stripped, solid wood floors. Double height ceilings provide the perfect canvas for modern interior design and they are all stunning in their own right. Both the living room and Veuve Clicquot style dining room are beautifully bright, thanks to double height bay windows with New England style shutters. And, in the cosy lounge, extensive bookcases invite you to pour yourself a glass of your favourite tipple and dip into a novel or two. Bespoke, solid oak cabinetry and black granite worktops make for a quality finish in the kitchen, with all necessary appliances, an American style fridge freezer, and Karndean flooring underfoot. Radiators juxtapose between the vertical contemporary and Victorian column style, blending the lines between modernity and classic. There’s a large range cooker to whip up a hearty brunch, and a breakfast bar to feast on it. Meanwhile, a smart utility room with Belfast sink keeps laundry days in check. But, chores aside, what we love most about this space is the nifty way the window extends fully open, transforming it into a drinks bar for parties. A real sense of boutique hotel style can be found on the first floor, where each of the five bedrooms is individually named. The 'Victoria' features large, double height bay windows, which take in views of the rear garden. Fitted wardrobes and original built-in shelving keep everywhere shipshape and there’s plenty of space for a King size bed too, beneath the chandelier. The 'Edgbaston' also enjoys garden views, whilst The 'Timmins' looks out to the tree-lined front. 'Church Road' boasts its own staircase and leads into the den with its characterful sloping ceilings and there’s storage aplenty in each and every room. In The '1851' principal bedroom, handmade fitted wardrobes flank the King size bed. The en suite features New England style shutters and solid wood floors and a capacious, double shower. And a spiral staircase leads from '1851' to the mezzanine area, ideal for the ultimate home office, and into the den. The port hole window adds a nautical theme to the sanctuary of the family bathroom, with its twin basins and walk-in double shower for busy mornings, and roll top bath where you can indulge in a little ‘me time’ after a long day. The stunning landscaped garden is the crème de la crème of al fresco entertaining spaces. There’s a spot out here to satiate every wish, from the bespoke hot tub area with bespoke canopy, to the sunken wildlife pond, terrace and dawn-to-dusk sun deck. Even muddy paws are well looked after with an outside Belfast sink. There’s side access round to the front as well, invaluable for cyclists and gardeners alike, whilst the wood shed keeps Fawsley’s fireplaces toasty. Mature Ash and Robinia trees feature alongside well-stocked borders, and a pretty path leads to a large, central lawn. Anyone for croquet? Meander through the mature apple arch to the kitchen gardens, alive with fruit bushes and vegetable patches, then take five to enjoy the soothing water feature in the seating area here. Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC 1 Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent Elvetham Road, Birmingham, B15 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Five Ways Station 0.1 miles Birmingham New Street Station 0.8 miles Birmingham Moor Street Station 1.0 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Mr and Mrs Clarke, Nationwide Nationwide "We hold the simple belief that estate agency can be done better - with the customer at the heart of the process receiving a level of service and transparency they want and deserve." Mrs Clarke Mr (Paul) and Mrs (Alex) Clarke founded the estate agency in 2015 after feeling what many people feel when part of the property process - detached and undervalued. The property process has historically been a challenging one, with buyers and sellers feeling out of the loop from their esta Read more More properties from this agent Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Mr and Mrs Clarke, Nationwide Nationwide More properties from this agent Call agent : 0115 697 5949 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference RX260720. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Mr and Mrs Clarke, Nationwide . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0115 697 5949 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho