Join News, Current Affairs & Politics Forums New posts What's new New posts New media New media comments Latest activity Media New media New comments Search media Members Current visitors Log in Register What's new Search Search Everywhere Threads This forum This thread Search first post and title only Search titles only By: Search Advanced search… New posts Menu Log in Register Install the app Install Cycling Forums Recumbents, Trikes & HPVs JavaScript is disabled. For a better experience, please enable JavaScript in your browser before proceeding. You are using an out of date browser. It may not display this or other websites correctly. You should upgrade or use an alternative browser . Two wheeled recumbent riding in winter? Thread starter Time Waster Start date 18 Dec 2021 Page may contain affiliate links. Please see terms for details. T Time Waster Über Member 18 Dec 2021 #1 Just got my recumbent back on the road in time for freezing fog and winter. What advice would you give? I've ridden all year round on uprights, taken a few spills and learnt where to icy patches hide out. I've learnt to ride slow and steady manoeuvres especially turns. However I've got a lot of handling experience with uprights. I don't with recumbent bikes. What do I need to know? It's just a bike but it's a different bike to what I'm used to. The SMGT is a solid touring bent but with fairly slick, narrow schwalbe tyres on I'm not sure what to expect. a.twiddler Veteran 19 Dec 2021 #2 It's not all solid freezing fog and ice from October -March. Plenty of good riding days. Have you started commuting on it? If not you can pick your days. If you're worried you could always change your tyres for something more rugged. Otherwise it's like riding your uprights. The more you ride the more relaxed you'll be. The more relaxed you are the less likely you are to stiffen up if you come to a nadgery patch of mud, leaves or ice and maybe fall off. How did you get your handling experiences on uprights? By riding. The same with your SMGT. Just get out there and ride! There is also the added factor that you'll have more layers of padding in the winter if you need to cushion the fall, which I think the fear of, is stopping you from enjoying your riding. I found that thinking about things like starting across a busy junction stopped me actually doing it but if I made myself "just do it" it just flowed. The same if I'd stopped for some reason, and was intimidated by the traffic flow, if I selected a likely gap, signalled assertively and set off, traffic would just make way. They're a lot more worried about you on your strange machine than you are about them! Ending up in the wrong gear or at the wrong speed and getting into awkward situations with low speed handling is just something which mostly goes away with practice, and as you ride more and make small adjustments you'll find things get easier. Maybe practicing slow riding and uphill starts in car parks can help boost your confidence a bit. Winter in itself isn't such a big problem if you're already used to riding an upright all year round, it's just adapting to the way a recumbent bike works. From every ride being a steep learning curve about 18 months ago to earlier this year when I felt I could go anywhere I could go on my Linear that I could go on my steel tourer (length permitting) it has been a steep climb composed of many tiny steps. You just have to keep at it until suddenly one day it will be second nature, just as if you were getting on your favourite comfortable upright, everything will just "fit" and feel right. Reactions: Scoosh grldtnr Senior Member 19 Dec 2021 #3 Never a problem for me, I have a trike! Mind you ,i'll not take the AZUB on winter roads too much salt grit on the roads, the Stainless steel Optima Rider for that.. Boy, have I had some fun on the low down trike, going up hill, well struggling really, losing grip , then pirouetteing and sliding backwards into the rest of the bunch. I got some name calling then..... Reactions: a.twiddler OP OP T Time Waster Über Member 19 Dec 2021 #4 I know enough from getting used to my Brompton, twitchy as hell, that different bikes and different sized wheels make a huge difference. Brommie doesn't have assets much grip or handle potholes as my 700c wheeled df bike, my smaller wheeled recumbent doesn't feel as grippy on the shirt, wet stretch I test ride yesterday. I'm not totally sure it's just due to 32 vs 38mm tyres or marathon pluses vs racers. BTW anyone know the tyre size clearance on an SMGT with stock mudguards? Could they take 38mm? 20" front and 26"rear, what tyres are best for greasy conditions over winter? cougie uk Veteran 19 Dec 2021 #5 I don't ride if it's icy. Just not worth the risk for me. Ming the Merciless There is no mercy Location Inside my skull 19 Dec 2021 #6 Grip is a combination of four main factors 1. Overall weight of bike and rider 2. Weight distribution between the wheels 3. The tyres you are using. 4. The surface you are riding on The only thing you can change on your recumbent is the tyres really. You can get winter tyres which can be a combination of one or more of rubber that stays flexible in cold temps, sipes, and finally studs. In terms of winter riding its the usual things. Ride more conservatively and smoother. Don’t take corners fast. Be wary of wet metal covers or grids. On a recumbent your feet are first , you may need warmer shoes / boots than your upright. Key to riding recumbents well is a relaxed upper body. This is especially true in winter. Keep it relaxed and even if you slide keep it relaxed. A slide doesn’t necessarily mean you’re going down unless you tense up. If you do go down try and keep your elbows and knees tucked in. They are the things that generally connect with the ground. Offs are much less of a concern than an upright. You’d have to try hard to hit your head (I’ve never succeeded), where as that’s almost inevitable on an upright. In terms of what conditions you can ride in, really depends on your tyres and how relaxed you are. Here’s me out and about in the snow on recumbent last winter. Of course winters days are a mix of mild and wet, mild and grey, cold and dry, cold and wet. If you are not confident in the conditions go for a walk instead or find a disused railway etc. But vast majority of days you can ride. If it’s a frosty morning maybe wait to mid day for a ride when it’s warm enough that any ice has gone. Last edited: 19 Dec 2021 Reactions: Scoosh and FishFright R recumbentpanda Veteran 3 Jan 2022 #7 Riding along a bike path on my Nazca Fuego semi low rider a couple of winters back. Approaching a small bend somebody shouted ‘Ice!’. An upright roadie had just steamed through ahead of me on razor thin tyres, so I carried on. Back wheel went a bit squirrely, I dropped the bike, grunted in embarrassment , scrambled up and carried on. No damage other than, temporarily, to self esteem. An hour or two later coming back the same way, I thought ‘Hmm, probably ought to take this bit carefully!’ Rolled gently through the bend without incident, only to see a small pile of cyclists sitting on the verge in silver blankets, waiting for the ambulance man who was very gingerly wheeling his stretcher trolley towards them! One of my best winter rides on any kind of bike was on a long wheelbase Linear like Twiddler’s, through three inches of dry powder snow. A crisp and even experience! Short of a recumbent trike a fairly low 2 wheel bent is a great way to cycle in winter and far superior to many uprights for the conditions. OP OP T Time Waster Über Member 6 Jan 2022 #8 What would you describe an HPV Streetmachine? Is not a high or low recumbent in my opinion, sort of medium. O Oliver Absalom Regular 5 Oct 2022 #9 Hi I have a Ryan Vanguard lwb and a Pelso Brevet high racer along with my Surly steel frame road bike and I ride 52 weeks and my take on it is that obviously dry is nice and +1 is about cold enough otherwise hands and feet are just too cold (petrol stations and pinching the petrol pump gloves as a first layer under an already proper winter glove!) -1 and countryside your just asking for trouble! Stay in my warm house! My Strava chums think I’m nuts because every Saturday 4/5/6am I’m off somewhere! I work in Smithfield meat market so 4am is your 9am!! I love it but last winter there was a few mornings showing +1 and I came outside to find thick white frost crusted cars and pavements! “You sure???!!” Yeah!!! I live in Bromley suburb south of London so at that time and temperature I tend to do a London loop which is 45 or 60 miles depending. London is quiet and the roads are warm enough to not be icy plus it’s lit up whereas the countryside is properly dark till gone 6.45/7am. So urban rides are amazing early winter mornings but countryside can go horribly wrong ! I just do a couple of skid tests and check the damp I’m seeing isn’t ice then enjoy the ride! Midday rides then your definitely fine. Just take it easy and enjoy 😊 You must log in or register to reply here. Similar threads Recumbent Photo Thread? Recumbents, Trikes & HPVs Replies 13 22 May 2023 Two Years With an Iowa Linear LWB recumbent Recumbents, Trikes & HPVs Replies 14 15 Mar 2023 New to riding a tricycle Recumbents, Trikes & HPVs Replies 22 15 Mar 2023 Ryan Duplex Recumbent Tandem Recumbents, Trikes & HPVs Replies 10 4 Oct 2022 Share: Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest Tumblr WhatsApp Email Share Link Cycling Forums Recumbents, Trikes & HPVs Log in Register CycleChat Contact us Terms and Rules Privacy policy Help RSS Community platform by XenForo ® © 2010-2022 XenForo Ltd. This site uses cookies to help personalise content, tailor your experience and to keep you logged in if you register. By continuing to use this site, you are consenting to our use of cookies. Accept Learn more… Top Bottom