! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here UK Sold House Prices Enter a UK street, town, or postcode Search Find out what a home really sold for Discover everything we know about a property, together with its sold price history. View photos and floor plans from the last time a home was listed with us, alongside UK sold house prices* sourced direct from HM Land Registry and Registers of Scotland; the government departments which register the ownership of land and property. Whether you're interested in what's going on locally, or you’re planning to buy or sell a home, we've got the information to help. You can even find out how much your home’s worth right now, with a free, accurate market valuation from a local agent . May House Price Index Prices hit record high as new sellers respond to improving market Get our latest report Buyer Guides Find out more about buying Seller Guides Find out more about selling UK house prices Most popular UK property locations House prices in London House prices in Cornwall House prices in Glasgow House prices in York, North Yorkshire House prices in Edinburgh House prices in Sheffield House prices in Bristol House prices in Cambridge House prices in Birmingham House prices in Manchester, Greater Manchester Most popular property locations in London House prices in Orpington House prices in Sutton House prices in Richmond House prices in Kingston Upon Thames House prices in Chelsea House prices in Romford House prices in Beckenham House prices in Hornchurch House prices in Putney House prices in Wimbledon Most affordable locations to buy in the UK House prices in Glasgow House prices in Blackpool, Lancashire House prices in Hull, East Riding of Yorkshire House prices in Stoke-on-trent, Staffordshire House prices in Middlesbrough, North Yorkshire House prices in Plymouth, Devon House prices in Lowestoft, Suffolk House prices in Swindon, Wiltshire House prices in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire House prices in Pontypool, Monmouthshire, Torfaen Most affordable locations to buy in London House prices in Erith House prices in Thamesmead House prices in Barking House prices in Dagenham House prices in Edmonton House prices in Feltham House prices in South Norwood House prices in Chadwell Heath House prices in Harold Wood House prices in Northolt Explore UK house prices by region London House prices in London House prices in Central London House prices in East London House prices in North East London House prices in North London House prices in North West London House prices in South East London House prices in South London House prices in South West London House prices in West London England House prices in East Midlands House prices in London House prices in North East House prices in North West House prices in South East House prices in South West House prices in West Midlands House prices in Yorkshire and the Humber Wales House prices in Mid Wales House prices in North Wales House prices in South Wales House prices in West Wales Scotland House prices in Central Scotland House prices in Edinburgh and Lothian House prices in Glasgow and Surrounding Areas House prices in Highlands and Islands House prices in Lowlands House prices in North East Scotland House prices in South West Scotland Your questions about house prices answered What is the average house price in the UK? The national average house price for March 2023 is £365,357. That's 3% higher than a year ago. We track how the price of property coming to market changes every month in our House Price Index . It's the largest and most up-to-date view of what's happening to property prices. You can also use our Price Comparison Report to see an overview of your area. Will UK house prices drop this year? The average asking price on Rightmove (how much a property's listed for) has increased by 20% across Great Britain since 2019. This is because of an extremely busy market from the summer of 2020 through to the first quarter of 2022. We're now in a slower housing market, which means that we're unlikely to see any significant price rises in 2023. It's hard to predict, but our experts think that we might see a price drop of around 2% nationally this year. It's important to remember that there are thousands of local markets where house prices differ from the national trend. These local markets can rise and fall. You can find out the average asking price in your area by checking our House Price Index report. How does inflation affect UK house prices? General inflation measures the price of goods and services bought by UK households.Typically, this means things like food and clothes. There are several ways to measure general inflation in the UK. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) is one of the most common. It's published by the Office for National Statistics every month. General inflation People's confidence levels in their individual financial position can be affected by general inflation. And this in turn can impact the demand to buy a home. However, inflation increasing or decreasing doesn't necessarily mean that house prices will follow the same trend. This is because house prices can be affected by a number of related factors. Supply and demand Supply and demand is one of the key factors that affects house prices. It describes the level of demand there is for properties, compared with the supply, or number of homes there are available to buy. Other reasons House prices can also be affected by how easy it is to borrow money, as well as incentives from the government. Over the past 20 years asking prices of homes across Great Britain have more than doubled, from just over £150,000 to over £365,000. This means that house price inflation has outpaced both general inflation and average salaries over the same period. Where have house prices risen the most in 2023? Compared with 2022, house asking prices have risen most in the North West and the North East regions of England, where they've increased by 4.7% since March last year. Liverpool is the city in the North West with the highest house price growth, with prices up 6% compared to last year. The town of Oldham experienced notable house price increases of 9%, as well as Bolton and Chester, which are both up by 7% compared with March 2022. In the North East, the cities with biggest increases are Sunderland and Newcastle upon Tyne. Here house prices are up by 7% since last year, as well as Middlesborough with an increase of 6%. Average property asking price per region Region Average asking price March 2023 Average asking price March 2022 % increase East Midlands £284,211 £275,118 3.3% East of England £415,836 £408,337 1.8% London £680,806 £664,400 2.5% North East £184,000 £175,749 4.7% North West £250,659 £239,312 4.7% Scotland £182,478 £178,461 2.3% South East £482,388 £473,922 1.8% South West £385,171 £369,971 4.1% Wales £256,596 £246,104 4.3% West Midlands £282,042 £273,100 3.3% Yorkshire and The Humber £241,270 £230,935 4.5% *Our latest available asking price data from March 2023. How often does HM Land Registry update house prices? HM Land Registry updates their sold house prices data on the 20th day of each month. However, the time between the sale of a property and the registration of this information varies between a few weeks, and a number of months. Registers of Scotland processes the majority of cases within 35 days. So, in both cases, data for the two most recent months isn't complete. Once HM Land Registry and Registers of Scotland update their data, we typically update our sold prices within a few weeks, but this can sometimes take longer. *At the moment, our sold house price data doesn’t cover homes in Northern Ireland. Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho