Search Report a repair Contact us My Move Account Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Sell Property valuation Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Local Sold House Prices Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Looking to move? Get your property valuation Get your conveyancing solicitor Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations How much can I afford? - use our budget planner and find out Something need fixing - Report a repair Landlords Rental valuation Book an accurate lettings valuation Get an instant online valuation Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations Looking to let? Get your property valuation Get your property managed New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Mortgages Mortgage Services Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Book your mortgage appointment About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection Branches Sales Amersham Hazlemere and Great Missenden High Wycombe Princes Risborough Land & New Homes Lettings Amersham High Wycombe Princes Risborough Fine & Country Fine & Country South Buckinghamshire Other departments Sales Progression Property Management JNP Handyman Services Head Office xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? My Move xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Branches xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Report a repair - Fixflo Branches Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Sell Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Local Sold House Prices Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Existing tenants Report a maintenance issue What to do in an emergency Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations Landlords Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Mortgages Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Careers About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection You're in control We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. To learn more about how we use cookies, please see our Cookie Policy . You can manage your preferences now on this banner, or via your browser at anytime. Functional Active Inactive Analytical Active Inactive Non-essential Active Inactive Manage Accept Home Rent Tenant guides Moving out of a rental property Moving out of a rental property Tenant guides First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Damp, mould and condensation Maintenance tips for your rental property What to do if there is an emergency in your rental property Preventing rental fraud Moving out of a rental property Moving out is a fairly complex process which, alongside the next step of moving into your new home, can be stressful. Our useful guide provides hints are tips to help make the process as smooth as possible. Giving notice You need to give appropriate notice of your intention to vacate the property, in line with the terms of your tenancy agreement. If you’re unsure, you can contact Property Management to confirm how long this needs to be. End of tenancy form Once we have received notice we will send a form to be completed by all tenants listed on the Tenancy Agreement. This form will ask for your forwarding address and bank details, along with information on the utility suppliers in the property. It’s important to return this as failure to return the completed form may delay the return of your deposit. Property condition and cleaning We would like your deposit return to be swift and would like to end your tenancy on a happy note. With this in mind, it is useful to know that cleaning is the most common reason for delays with deposit returns. Reading your original inventory can help ensure that you are returning the property to the same level of cleanliness. If you cannot find your copy of the inventory then please contact Property Management who can forward a copy. Make sure you also check for any special clauses within your Tenancy Agreement that require further services i.e. fumigation, chimney sweeping, and carpet cleaning. If you decide to use a professional cleaning company and would like help finding a reputable contractor, please contact Property Management. If you decide to carry out cleaning yourself and the property had previously been professionally cleaned the landlord would be within their right to request that the property be professionally cleaned at your expense from the deposit. This includes instances where tenants hire cleaning equipment to carry out the cleaning or carpets or upholstery themselves as this may not clean to the same standard as at the commencement of the tenancy. Other things you may wish to consider doing include: Clearing out the gutters Sweeping out the chimney Cleaning the windows (inside and out) Dry-cleaning the upholstery, curtains and linen Ensuring the garden and/or outdoor space is in a seasonal condition Defrosting the freezer If you use third party contractors, make sure you keep receipts for the above, where relevant. Make sure each item is put back where it was when you checked in, especially if your property was originally furnished. For any missing or damaged items, tell the letting agent or landlord before checking out to find out how to best replace or repair them. Domestic and recycling waste Please ensure that any bins are placed in the correct position for council collection. Changes to the property During your tenancy, if your landlord has given permission for you to make any temporary alterations to the property you will need to ensure that they are returned to how they were at the start of the tenancy. Council Tax/ Utilities Contact utility suppliers (water and sewage, electricity, gas, telephone and broadband, media services and TV licence) and let them know your move-out date. For gas, electricity and water (if metered), you will need to have your final meter readings to hand. The service provider will require your forwarding address so that they can send you a final bill. If you have an oil tank or propane gas cylinder this should be topped up to the same level as it was when you moved in. Also contact your local authority and inform them of your moving date and where you’ll be moving to, so they have a forwarding address on file. Change of details So that your post continues to get to you, it’s important to contact anyone that holds personal details for you and provide them with your new address, such as: Bank / Building society Insurance company Doctors DVLA HMRC Friends and family Your employer It’s also worth setting up a Royal Mail redirection service for the first few months after check-out. Standing order cancellation When you’ve made the final rental payment, contact your bank to cancel the standing order mandate. They will only act on your instruction and if you don’t inform them of the cancellation they will continue making the payment. We will refund any accidental payments the first month and remind you to cancel your standing order, however, a charge may apply if the standing order still has not been cancelled in the following months. Key return On your vacating date, you should return all keys, alarm fobs, gate remotes and any parking permits that were signed over to you at the beginning of or during your tenancy. Please note that once you have surrendered the keys to the property you will have no legal right to re-enter the property. Checkout Checkout usually takes place the working day after the last day of your tenancy. The independent inventory company will check the condition of the property and its contents against the inventory created at the start of the tenancy. We strongly recommend that you are present for the checkout appointment as the report created on this visit forms part of your deposit negotiation. Deposit return Once both you and the landlord are in agreement, your deposit will be returned to you (minus any agreed costs for repairs or cleaning, if applicable). If a disagreement occurs, any undisputed amount can be released to you and the remainder will be kept until an appropriate outcome has been agreed. Depending on your landlord’s service agreement with us, we may act as an intermediary with you and the landlord to negotiate. If we are unable to resolve any disagreement, we will refer the case to the deposit protection scheme used to protect your deposit, who offer a free dispute resolution service. Previous - During the tenancy Next - Damp, mould and condensation Useful information for tenants Why rent with us Find out more about renting through JNP Permitted payments Read through our fees and permitted payment How much can you afford? Use our budget calculator to see how much rent you can afford. Useful information for tenants Find out more about renting xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"? Permitted payments Budget planner Book a valuation Contact your local branch My Move account Buy Find Property For Sale Land & New Homes Buying Calculators Rent Find Property To Rent Permitted payments Report a repair Sell Sell your property with us Book a property valuation Get an instant valuation Landlords Landlord services Service options & Fees Guides for landlords Services Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Helpful Links Careers Branches Privacy Notice Legal Information Accessibility Cookie Policy VAT Complaints Procedure Client Money Protection Anti Money Laundering information xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? JNP is a trading name, independently owned and operated under licence from LSLi Limited by AIG (KH) Ltd (company number 14772222), registered in England at 5 Brooklands Place, Brooklands Road, Sale, Cheshire, England, M33 3SD. Also trading as Fine & Country. We may refer you to recommended providers of ancillary services such as Conveyancing, Financial Services, Insurance and Surveying. We may receive a commission payment fee or other benefit (known as a referral fee) for recommending their services. You are not under any obligation to use the services of the recommended provider. The ancillary service provider may be an associated company of JNP.