Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 19 19 Deansgate, Manchester, M3 See map Offers Over £2,000,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Reduced on 26/12/2022 PROPERTY TYPE Apartment BEDROOMS ×4 BATHROOMS ×4 SIZE 4,448 sq. ft. (413 sq. m.) TENURE Leasehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Triplex Apartment Four Double Bedrooms 44th, 45th and 46th Floor 5 Secure Parking Spaces Private, Balcony Terrace on Each Floor Separate Garage Lock Up EPC Rating B Breathtaking View Of Manchester Exclusive Open House REF:KYNA Property description The Orchid Suite is without doubt one of Manchesters most luxurious apartments offering a unique City Centre living experience within its three floor triplex building. World renowned Beetham Tower is Europes largest residential building with views across the whole of Greater Manchester and located on the doorstep to many restaurants, bars and transport links. The Orchid Suite is a breathtaking property with endless uses from main residence, second home or corporate space which includes underfloor heating throughout, air conditioning and biometric finger print recognition entry. The property is 4448 sq.ft of luxurious living and entertaining space set over three floors linked by its very own internal spiral staircase and finished and furnished to the highest of standards throughout. Enter the Orchid Suite on the 45th floor, you are greeted immediately by a spacious hall and spiral staircase with feature chandelier and curved sliding doors which leads into a large open plan Living room through to the luxury kitchen/dining. This floor is perfect for hosting and entertaining with dinning setting for adults and small children, feature cooking island, toilet and separate utility room. The 44th floor provides further living space such as a reception room/cinema room, double bedroom, home office and a stunning walk in wardrobe of dreams. Head of the 46th floor is the main master bedroom double with His and hers en-suite featuring a centre bath, and double shower cubicles and walk in wardrobe. A further two double bedrooms and family bathroom. Each floor enjoys an enclosed large balcony and uninterrupted breathtaking views across Manchester City Centre. A rare feature for any apartment in Manchester City centre in having underground parking for 5 cars with 24 hour security, 24 hour concierge. Beetham Tower is home to The Hilton Manchester Deansgate Hotel, & Cloud 23 Bar. An array of amenities & transport links are available within a moments reach. Occupants can also utilise the luxurious facilities provided by The Hilton at an extra cost. Originally designed by SimpsonHaugh and Partners, Beetham Tower stands proud at the top of Deansgate, and is undoubtedly premium living at its finest. Location Positioned at the top of Deansgate, residents at Beetham Tower have all that the city of Manchester has on offer on their doorstep. With a variety of bars, restaurants, and shopping facilities available along Deansgate, connectivity is also excellent with Deansgate tram and train links less than 0.1m away. Leasehold with approximately 987 years remaining. Entrance Hall Living Room Kitchen Balcony 1 Balcony 2 Balcony 3 Utility Room Bathroom 1 Bathroom 2 Bathroom 3 Reception Room Bedroom 1 Bedroom 2 Bedroom 3 Study Dressing Room 1 Dressing Room 2 Landing Master Bedroom Ensuite Read more Tenure: Leasehold You buy the right to live in a property for a fixed number of years, but the freeholder owns the land the property's built on. Read more about tenure type in our glossary page. For details of the leasehold, including the length of lease, annual service charge and ground rent, please contact the agent Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC 1 Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent Deansgate, Manchester, M3 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Deansgate Station 0.1 miles G-Mex Tram Stop 0.1 miles St Peters Square Tram Stop 0.3 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Tyron Ash Real Estate, Mayfair 2nd Floor Berkeley House Berkeley Square, London, W1J 6BD Tyron Ash Real Estate are a UK Based Real Estate / Estate Agency company based in Mayfair, London. We specialise in selling Residential, Prime and Super Prime Property across all areas of London, as well as all major towns & cities across the UK. We have dedicated, local expert agents offering a tailored estate agency service dedicated to getting property owners the best possible price for their home, in a time to suit their needs. Contact us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Tyron Ash Real Estate, Mayfair 2nd Floor Berkeley House Berkeley Square, London, W1J 6BD More properties from this agent Call agent : 03332 401107 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference RX225488. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Tyron Ash Real Estate, Mayfair . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 03332 401107 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho