Product Product Overview Connect Strategy with Execution Gain Visibility Across Projects and Portfolios Optimize Delivery Workflows Request a demo Capabilities OKRs Implement OKRs and align your strategy with day-to-day execution Workspace management Distribute and track work across the entire organization Management Dashboards Monitor business objectives, understand risks, and track the most important performance metrics Workflow management Keep your teams' work in a single place with multi-layered Kanban boards Kanban boards Keep track of tasks and get accurate status reports in real-time Interlinked boards Create a network of interlinked Kanban boards on a team and management level Timelines Visualize your past, current, and future initiatives or projects Dashboards & reporting Display critical business metrics and gather reports in one place Dependency management Visualize and track cross-team dependencies via card links Kanban card functions Customize your work items as needed and enhance communication Project forecasting Create probabilistic plans for future project delivery Business Rules Automate your process to trigger actions when certain events occur Workflow Analytics Analyze your workflow’s performance through a variety of Lean/Agile charts Limiting work in progress Reduce multitasking, alleviate bottlenecks, and keep a steady flow of work Integrations Integrate with external systems to get the most out of your Kanban software Email integration Create and update cards via email and reply to emails by adding a comment API Take advantage of the Kanbanize REST API See all functionalities Solutions BY SIZE Organization Achieve transparency at the top level Team Increase team productivity up to 300% Request a demo BY USE CASE Agile Project Management Gain process agility by visualizing all company initiatives and projects IT Operations Manage demand and customer requests in your IT department Engineering Build products faster with 100% process transparency Software Development Deliver great software in a predictable manner BY INDUSTRY Aerospace Optimize the development of aircraft engines & avionics systems Architecture & Construction Facilitate communication and optimize workflows across all teams Pharmaceutical Enhance the flow of medical development and testing processes Mechanical & Industrial Engineering Visualize the flow of industrial products from design to production Chemicals Enhance production efficiency in the chemical industry Computer Software Release features faster to production & embrace data-driven planning Financial Services/Banking Empower digital transformation in financial institutions IT Services Meet customer expectations & deliver IT services efficiently Partners Partnership Program Become a Partner Maximize your profits while partnering with the best Kanban software Find a Partner Work with Kanbanize Partner Request a demo Pricing Enterprise Resources Services Professional Services Get expert help to deliver end-to-end business solutions Request a demo Helpful Resources Case Studies Read Kanbanize customer success stories from all around the globe Kanban Simulation Get to know Kanban in a simulation environment Kanbanize Academy Dive into Lean/Agile with dedicated courses Kanban Library Access our comprehensive library of Kanban resources Kanbanize Blog Discover the latest Kanbanize news, get helpful content and actionable tips Knowledge Base Learn how to configure and use Kanbanize and keep track of new product updates EN DE ES PT FR PL IT Contact Sales Log in Try It Free What Is Muri and How to Deal with It? Muri is a key concept in Lean management. It stands for “overburdening”. Find out what can cause Muri and how to deal with it. Go back to all Getting Started What Is Lean Management? The 5 Principles of Lean What Is Shared Leadership? What Is Lean Manufacturing? Value and Waste What Is Value in Lean? 7 Wastes of Lean What Is Mura? What Is Muri? What Is 5S? What Is the Cost of Delay? What Is Value Stream Mapping? Pull Systems What Is a Pull System? What Is a Bottleneck? Just-in-Time Manufacturing Implementing a Kanban Pull System Pull System on the Portfolio Level Continuous Improvement What Is Kaizen? What Is Continuous Improvement? Built-In Quality Management What Is the Poka-Yoke Technique? What Is Plan-Do-Check-Act Cycle? 5 Whys: The Ultimate Root Cause Analysis Tool Gemba Walk: Where the Real Work Happens A3 Problem-Solving: Fight the Root Cause Root Cause Analysis How To Perform Root Cause Analysis? Root Cause Analysis Tools What Is a Pareto Chart? What Is a Scatter Diagram? What Is a Fishbone Diagram? Hoshin Kanri What Is Hoshin Kanri? What Is Hoshin Kanri Catchball? Demystifying the Hoshin Kanri X Matrix Lean Transformation The Lean Transformation Model Explained Lean Transformation Roadmap - 8 Comprehensive Steps Continuous Flow What Is Takt Time? What Is Heijunka? What Is Jidoka? What Is Andon? What Is Lean Six Sigma? Lean Six Sigma Principles Lean Six Sigma Tools Lean Six Sigma Implementation What Is Six Sigma? What Is DMADV? What Is DMAIC? Lean Project Management Share on: Go back to all One of Lean management's main purposes is to eliminate wasteful activities in the production process and optimize resources. Surprisingly, many lean practitioners go straight to tackling the 7 wastes, known as Muda, while forgetting the other two M’s that are crucial for maintaining a smooth and well-organized workflow: Mura and Muri. In reality, identifying and removing Mura (unevenness) is extremely important if you want to create a steady work pace. However, at first, you need to identify the steps of your process that overburden the organization's work system. In other words, you need to spot Muri. After this, you will be able to analyze and optimize the work capacity of your workforce. Let’s explore what Muri is in detail. What Is Muri? Muri is a Japanese term meaning “overburden or unreasonable”. It is one of the three types of waste (Muda, Mura, Muri) and a key concept in the Toyota Production System. In other words, you create Muri whenever you put your team under stress by demanding unreasonable or unnecessary work that exceeds their capacity. Muri can drastically decrease your team’s productivity and efficiency. Putting too much pressure often translates to extra working hours, which will lead to occupational burnout. Overburdening can hurt your team’s morale and damage the “health” of the whole work process. It is like in a football team: if you only put the whole pressure on 3 players because they are outstanding, at some point, they will get injured, and then the whole team will struggle. So you need to be careful while trying to use the full capacity of your team. You should try to balance at the optimal capacity – a level at which all parts of the system can deliver results without the need for extra work. It is easy to say, but let’s discover what can cause Muri. What Can Cause Muri? You can overburden your teams without even realizing it. For example, setting unrealistic deadlines can force different team members to rush the work. This will often lead to poor quality and decreased customer satisfaction. Let’s demonstrate this with an example. If you tell your designer to make twice more images that she is able to produce for a certain period of time, she will probably do it, but not all of them will be of the highest quality. More or less, it is like an assembly line. Imagine you have the workers who check the quality of products, and the faster you run the assembly line, the higher the chance low-quality products will go to your customers. There are many different reasons that can cause Muri. Over-demanding The first and more obvious is over-demanding. In the contemporary business world, it is quite surprising how higher management pushes more work onto their teams, hoping that more inputs will result in more outputs. In fact, this leads to a constantly increasing number of waiting tasks, which often results in chaos and burnouts. Lack of training Companies often neglect the need for good training sessions. This is how, at some point, a team member can end up working on a task much longer than necessary. Let’s say that you are trained to work as a copywriter. However, the manager decides to use you as a designer. You will probably need twice more time to deliver good images than a regular designer will. Lack of communication Good communication is crucial for the success of any team. You need to establish clear communication channels and practices to avoid overburdening. Imagine that you have a meeting with 3 of your team members, and you decide to make 10 new landing pages for your website. Everybody in the meeting agrees and the team starts to work on the project. However, it was just a verbal agreement, and the designer was not informed of the project until the last day before the expected deadline. Respectively, the designer will be overburdened, and she/he will feel the negative effect of Muri because of miscommunication. Lack of proper tools and equipment When proper tools are missing, Muri is inevitable and obvious. If you give new computers to some of your developers, for example, but the rest work on 5 years old machines, the second group will definitely feel overburdened because they will need much more time to complete their tasks using their old equipment. There could be many other reasons causing Muri. You need to remember that managing all of them will prevent the whole work process from collapsing. Now, let’s see how you can deal with Muri. Different Ways to Deal with Muri Lean offers various tools and practices that may help you remove the negative effect of overburdening or reduce it to a minimum level. Map your team’s workflow First, let start by mapping your team’s workflow. For this purpose, you can use a Kanban board where you visualize the different stages of the workflow. By doing so, you will be able to acquire a clear understanding of your team’s capacity and see where value is created . After this, you can set work in progress limits for each stage of the workflow. This way, you will ensure that different team members will not work chaotically on multiple tasks, but they will be focused on completing current tasks before starting new ones. Simply, the application of WIP limits creates from Kanban an efficient pull system that will help you organize work better and prevent team members from overburdening. It gets a little bit more complicated on a global level. Very often, there are two or more teams whose work is inter-dependable. For example, let’s say that we have team A – developing new features for your software service and team B – deploying these features. However, team A delivers new features faster than team B deploys. In this case, team B will always have a huge queue of requested work, and their workflow will be overburdened all the time. Therefore, it is important to set WIP limits on a global level . So whenever team A starts working on a new feature, they need to be sure that team B has free capacity. Yes, team A can get blocked for a while, but they can redirect some of their capacity to help team B instead of overburdening them. In the business world, it is better to have one of your teams blocked than all your company stacked. Standardize your process Another way of dealing with Muri is standardization. Having all processes documented and team members well trained will ensure that everyone can do the right work in the best way. Standard procedures will support good communication, and it will help your teams avoid misconceptions. Practice Jidoka One more Lean management tool that can help you deal with Muri is Jidoka . It is a simple practice that allows any team member to stop the work process if a problem occurs. Then the team needs to solve the problem before the work process continues. This way, you create built-in quality standards and avoid rework. Additionally, you can do Gemba walks periodically, which is a simple “go and see” method that will help you have a clear understanding of what is actually happening and where Muri occurs. Try Kanbanize for free In Summary Many companies overburden their employees without even realizing it. This is what the Japanese call Muri. Overburdening inevitably leads to inefficiency, which can cost you valuable resources and a lack of good results in a matter of profitability. To tackle Muri: Train your teams properly and provide them with good tools and equipment. Create clear communication channels and practices. Create standardized procedures. Share on: Step 5 What Is 5S? Go to Article Step 6 What Is the Cost of Delay? Go to Article Start your free trial now and get access to all Kanbanize features. During the 14-day trial period you can invite your team and test the application in a production-like enviroment. Start my free trial class="footer-store-link"> Company About Customers Case Studies Blog Careers Product Kanban Boards OKRs Workspaces Plans & Pricing Integrations Knowledge Base Resources Kanban Guide Agile Project Management Guide OKRs Guide Lean Management Guide Industries Contact Us Contact Sales Customer Support Partner Program Request a Demo Kanbanize Site Map FAQ Additional Information Terms of Use Privacy Policy Data Processing Addendum Cookie Policy Have any questions? Call us on: (+1) 337 522 7420 (+55) 11 51979715 (+34) 944770101 Free trial Copyright © 2023 Kanbanize. All rights reserved. Web Design: eDesign Interactive