Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 10 10 Wycombe House, Wilbraham Road, Chorlton See map Offers in Region of £1,585,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 02/02/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Semi-Detached BEDROOMS ×11 BATHROOMS ×8 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Property description **RARE RESIDENTIAL INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITY** Wycombe House comprises a well configured period semi-detached property of traditional brick construction under a pitched roof and converted into 8 individual apartments arranged over basement, ground and two upper floors. The property was compressively refurbished in 2018 to an excellent standard providing two apartments to each floor. The apartments are all self-contained and benefit from electric panel heaters, double glazing, refurbished kitchens and bathrooms (Villeroy & Boch Bathrooms and with Hansgrohe fittings). Indicative plans are provided. Externally, parking is provided to the rear of the property along with a secured refuge / storage area. In addition, there is a potential development plot of land direct to the rear suitable for additional residential development subject to planning approval. Further information please contact Jodie or Eddie on . Externally - Tenure - Freehold Location & Situation - Manchester is widely regarded as the UK's second city and is understood to be the largest financial and student hub outside of London. It is known as the powerhouse of the North' with its economy focused upon banking, finance and more recently media. However, the economy is extremely diverse with an estimated 80 of the FTSE 100 companies represented with the city. Greater Manchester has a population totalling 2.6 million people increasing to over 6 million people within an hour's drive of the city. It has over 100,000 students within the city making Manchester a key global city for business and education. Chorlton is a vibrant suburb and has established itself as one South Manchester's most desirable residential and leisure locations. It is located some 4.5 miles south of Manchester centre and is popular with both young professionals and families due to its quality residential offering, transport links, schools, and leisure / retail provision. Chorlton benefits from 3 tram stations and a dedicated cycle lane into Manchester making it an ideal computer suburb. Both the M60 and M56 Motorways are within a mile allowing easy access to Manchester Airport and the national motorway network. The property is prominently situated along Wilbraham Road adjacent to Chorlton Village near all amenities. Investment Summary - Entire block of 8 Apartments in the heart of Chorlton Village Recently refurbished apartments o3 - 2 Bed Apartments o5 - 1 Bed Apartments Potential for additional development (STP) Current income of £77,500 pa with an ERV in the order of £80,700 pa Excellent opportunity to hold for long term income or to sell units individually Rental Figures - 1 (Basement) 2 Bed AST 25/02/2023 £950pcm £11,400pa 2 (Basement) 1 Bed AST 10/02/2023 £875pcm £10,500pa 3 (GF) 2 Bed AST 07/10/2017 £925pcm £11,100pa 4 (GF) 1 Bed AST 08/05/2023 £895pcm £10,740pa 5 (1st )2 Bed AST12/11-22 £950pcm £11,400pa 6 (1st) 1 Bed Regulated £405pcm £4,860pa 7 (2nd) 1 Bed AST 25/07/2022 £795 £9,540pa 8 (2nd) 1 Bed AST 17/03/2018 £725pcm £8,700pa Financial Services - We believe that by introducing our clients to specialist advisors who provide simple, sensible, mortgage & protection advice we can help our clients make fully informed decisions giving them the confidence that they are getting the right deal from the start. Our partners are committed to offering a tailor-made personal and professional service and aim to exceed expectations on every level, specialising in finding the best mortgage & protection products to suit your particular needs. If you wish to take the opportunity to speak with our partner advisors at Bespoke Mortgage; Bridget and Mark can be reached on or Brochures Wycombe House, Wilbraham Road, Chorlton Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC 1 Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent Wycombe House, Wilbraham Road, Chorlton Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Chorlton 0.4 miles Firswood Tram Stop 0.7 miles St Werburgh's Road Station 0.7 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent JP & Brimelow, Chorlton 430 Barlow Moor Road, Chorlton Cum Hardy, Manchester, M21 8AD Welcome to Chorlton & Didsbury Sales..... JP & Brimelow Chorlton & Didsbury Sales is a double fronted office positioned in a central location in the heart of Chorlton village on Barlow Moor Road run by owner Eddie. An award winning estate agent with a centrally located sales office. We have many years of experience selling properties in South Manchester's most popular and affluent suburbs. Facebook: JPandBrimelow Instagram: @jpbrimelowchorltonanddidsbury Twitte Read more More properties from this agent Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY JP & Brimelow, Chorlton 430 Barlow Moor Road, Chorlton Cum Hardy, Manchester, M21 8AD More properties from this agent Call agent : 0161 524 5506 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 31791242. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by JP & Brimelow, Chorlton . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0161 524 5506 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho