British Broadcasting Corporation Home Accessibility links Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help This page has been archived and is no longer updated. Find out more about page archiving. Religions Pagan beliefs Last updated 2002-10-02 Pagan beliefs incorporate a respect for nature, varying concepts of the divine and Pagan theology. On this page Page options Print this page What do Pagans believe in? Pagans respect nature as divine © Although Paganism covers a wide spectrum of ideas, these elements sum up the beliefs of the majority. Nature The recognition of the divine in nature is at the heart of Pagan belief. Pagans are deeply aware of the natural world and see the power of the divine in the ongoing cycle of life and death. Most Pagans are eco-friendly, seeking to live in a way that minimises harm to the natural environment. Concepts of the divine Pagans worship the divine in many different forms, through feminine as well as masculine imagery and also as without gender. The most important and widely recognised of these are the God and Goddess (or pantheons of God and Goddesses) whose annual cycle of procreation, giving birth and dying defines the Pagan year. Paganism strongly emphasises equality of the sexes. Women play a prominent role in the modern Pagan movement, and Goddess worship features in most Pagan ceremonies. Pagan theology Paganism is not based on doctrine or liturgy. Many pagans believe 'if it harms none, do what you will'. Following this code, Pagan theology is based primarily on experience, with the aim of Pagan ritual being to make contact with the divine in the world that surrounds them. In order to see this content you need to have both Javascript enabled and Flash installed. Visit BBC Webwise for full instructions Top « More Paganism See also Religion and Ethics home Interfaith calendar Ethics guides Around the BBC BBC Nature BBC iD BBC iD Settings Sign out Search term: BBC navigation News Sport Weather iPlayer TV Radio More… CBBC CBeebies Comedy Food History Learning Music Science Nature Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Full A-Z of BBC sites BBC links Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Accessibility Help Cookies Contact the BBC Parental Guidance BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.