Subscribe Sign In Hi, Guest CLEAR SUGGESTED TOPICS Explore HBR Diversity Latest The Magazine Ascend Podcasts Video Store Webinars Newsletters Popular Topics Managing Yourself Leadership Strategy Managing Teams Gender Innovation Work-life Balance All Topics For Subscribers The Big Idea Data & Visuals Reading Lists Case Selections HBR Learning Subscribe My Account My Library Topic Feeds Orders Account Settings Email Preferences Log Out Sign In Subscribe Diversity Latest Podcasts Video The Magazine Ascend Store Webinars Newsletters All Topics The Big Idea Data & Visuals Reading Lists Case Selections HBR Learning My Library Account Settings Log Out Sign In Your Cart Your Shopping Cart is empty. Visit Our Store Guest User Subscriber My Library Topic Feeds Orders Account Settings Email Preferences Log Out Reading List Reading Lists You have 1 free article s left this month. You are reading your last free article for this month. Subscribe for unlimited access. Create an account to read 2 more. Managing yourself How Ambitious Should You Be? Too much or too little could damage your reputation. by Ron Carucci by Ron Carucci April 13, 2020 Catherine Falls Commercial/Getty Images Tweet Post Share Annotate Save Get PDF Buy Copies Print Summary. Fostering a healthy level of ambition is not easy, and amidst so much uncertainty, it may seem like a low priority. But having the “pause button” hit — as it has been in most of our lives — makes this a wonderful time to step back and reflect on our professional aspirations. Striking a healthy degree of ambition can be achieved by using this framework, which structures ambition into three dimensions: performance, growth, and achievement. Your innate desires to perform at your best, to grow and become better, and to achieve rewards from your efforts, all reflect your unique identities. You just need to find a healthy balance between them. Tweet Post Share Annotate Save Get PDF Buy Copies Print Leer en español Ler em português Years ago, I was facilitating a board of directors’ succession committee to select the company’s next CEO. The slate was down to two candidates, each of whom had unique strengths and limitations. The committee chair offered a fascinating observation of them, saying, “One is too ambitious, and the other isn’t ambitious enough.” When I probed to better understand her concerns, she described a host of traits spanning each candidate’s degree of self-interest, achievement orientation, self-awareness, and concern for others. In short, the candidate labeled “too ambitious” had been overly assertive about the financial growth of the company and the candidate labeled “not ambitious enough” had spoken too much about their family and personal interests. There were two problems with this scenario. First, incomplete definitions of “ambition” should not be used as a screen to evaluate leaders. A leader’s motivations and values, and how those feed their drive for achievement, cannot be determined by isolated statements. The committee member wrongly interpreted financial growth as greed, and outside interests as a lack of drive. Second, the impression the two candidates left shows just how ineffective people can be at nurturing and expressing ambition. The problem is that too many leaders fail to see it as a vital resource. They either recklessly overindulge it, or work hard to suppress it for fear of being seen as self-serving. Each decision, however, has a consequence. In excess, ambition damages reputations, relationships, and can lead to catastrophic failure. On the other hand, too little ambition can make the person in question look lazy and unmotivated. Further, it can result in mediocre performance, boredom, and a bleak sense of futility. Fostering a healthy level of ambition is not easy, and amidst so much uncertainty, it may seem like a low priority. But well-balanced, ambition leads to creativity and innovation, greater levels of performance, and deeper levels of joy and satisfaction at work, wherever “work” may be. Having the “pause button” hit — as it has been in most of our lives — makes this a wonderful time to step back and reflect on our professional aspirations. After having studied and coached thousands of rising leaders, I have developed a framework to help people understand how to cultivate and convey ambition in a productive and well-balanced way. Doing so has helped many of them realize greater aspirations for both themselves and their organizations. My framework structures ambition into three dimensions: performance, growth, and achievement. Striking a healthy degree of ambition is achieved by developing each dimension equally, while also recognizing the natural tensions between them, as well as between your own desires and the desires of those we lead. Cultivating Healthy Ambition You need to balance three dimensions: performance, growth, and achievement. Element of ambition Questions to focus on Risks of too much focus… Risks of too little focus… PERFORMANCE AMBITION: Realizing greater results for myself and my organization What goals can I realistically attain through my own efforts? Too many, or too high goals sets up failure; you appear grandiose and unrealistic You appear cautious and risk averse; you condone mediocrity and playing it safe What goals can I guide my team/ organization to realistically attain? People sandbag results out of fear; the y stop trusting you as they avoid failure; your discontent becomes overly harsh Team gets bored and complacent; performance falls and confidence wanes; lost sense of purpose GROWTH AMBITION: Reaching new levels of technical and personal mastery What skill or knowledge will I need to improve or acquire? Wasted effort; self-indulgence; learning without application Insufficient skill or knowledge leads to performance failure; seen as arrogant or lazy What self-management capability will I need to improve or acquire? Insecurities or imposter syndrome becomes paralyzing; seen as neurotic or self-important Derailment of key relationships; seen as obtuse; others withdraw trust ACHIEVEMENT AMBITION: Attaining desired rewards for myself and others answers the question What rewards do I hope to gain as a result of my efforts? You are seen as greedy and self-interested; people resent you; your “cause” obscures other’s aspirations You become a martyr; you lose motivation to push yourself; you feel a sense of futility What rewards do those I lead hope to gain as a result of our efforts? Excessive individualism and entitlement become the norm; people compete with one another Team puts in minimum effort; people perceive inequity and lose incentive to try harder Source: Ron Carucci © HBR.org Performance ambition: realizing greater results for yourself and your organization. Ambition begins with understanding the aspirations you have for yourself and your team. These aspirations are often expressed in the form of goals that define your desired outcomes. Knowing how far to reach for any given aspiration is key to harnessing healthy ambition. Setting goals that require just the right level of difficulty and discomfort helps ensure you push yourself and your team to reach beyond your current abilities. If the challenge is too great, you risk giving up or becoming discouraged when you fall short. If the challenge isn’t great enough, you risk becoming bored or never realizing the full potential of your efforts. Both your desires and your discontent can serve as guidance on how high to aim. Ask yourself, “What do I wish was different about how things are today?” and “What about the way things are frustrates me most?” Perhaps you are dissatisfied with your team’s inability to beat a rival competitor but know that with the right service levels, you could handsomely outperform them. Perhaps you are unhappy with your team’s work ethic, but know with a change of attitude, they could reach their goals. Your desire and discontent could raise the bar in both situations. Discontent fuels our convictions that things can and should be improved while desire creates the energy to move toward that improvement. One client I worked with, for example, inherited a department with a poor reputation for doing shoddy work, and for whom the organization had very low expectations. He knew how critical this department’s work could be to the organization if performed at a higher level. While he was bullish on pushing ahead, his team was risk-averse, clinging to the safety of having so little asked of them. To move forward, he had to balance his ambitions with their caution. Blending his discontent with his team with his passion to help them improve ultimately fueled his ambition to turn things around and restore their position as a sought-after function. Growth ambition: reaching new levels of technical and personal mastery. While performance ambition is vital to making progress, many leaders presume that it is all there is. But your ambition should not be focused exclusively on reaching desired outcomes and gaining the resulting rewards. To be successful, you need to balance that desire with growth ambition — or the drive to plan for how you will actually reach those outcomes. The disparity between where things are today and where you want them to be can reveal learning gaps that you may need to close in order to realize your aspirations. In my work, I have found that nearly all leaders have both technical and personal development needs that become more pronounced in the face of higher aspirations. Technical mastery refers to knowledge and skills specifically required for the performance target you’ve set. It may be a sharper level of financial acumen or deeper understanding of a new market you are entering. On a personal level, your aspirations may demand greater levels of empathy to build new relationships, or patience to endure a protracted season of uncertainty. Having the intellectual humility to embrace these gaps will help you moderate your hunger for results. It will also ease the sting of critics that ambitious leaders inevitably attract — if you’ve already acknowledged your shortfalls, there’s no need to take criticism personally. When I work with executives facing daunting performance targets, I make them write down their own development goals alongside their performance goals to keep them inextricably linked. When a leader sees the achievement of a goal tied directly to their own learning needs, it helps them build measured confidence as they make progress toward both. Achievement ambition: attaining rewards for yourself and others. Whether it’s a deeper sense of purpose and contribution, a higher salary, promotion, or recognition for their expertise, leaders are driven, in part, by the rewards they stand to gain for success. It is this aspect of ambition that most often becomes perverted. When the performance and growth elements of ambition take a back seat to achievement, you start to appear propelled by greed and self-indulgence. Further, when your devotion shifts from the result to the reward, your expectations can become unrealistic, causing others to feel like cogs in a wheel and withdraw their trust. In other cases, to avoid the appearance of this, you may be tempted to deny your desires for achievement, which is also unhealthy. There is nothing wrong with wanting deeper meaning, material rewards, or recognition. But when those desires become insatiable, attaining those rewards only enlarges, not satisfies, the appetite for them, and leaves a wake of bodies behind on your unfettered pursuit of more. This often tends to backfire before the goal is even reached. Alternatively, if you fail to cultivate a sense of achievement entirely, your risk slipping into a state of complacent coasting and taking your team with you. The key to keeping your motivation for rewards at a healthy level is focusing on the fact that each member of your team also has their eye on a prize. As the leader, you must make sure that no one person’s achievement, especially your own, comes at the expense of other’s. Many leaders fear that being transparent about what they hope to achieve will lead to resentment or jealousy from their team. But if you allow everyone to be transparent about what they hope to gain and why, you will create shared commitment to achieving the rewards everyone wants, including yourself. The power in the three elements of the framework — performance, growth, and achievement, is the inherent checks and balances they create for one another. Focusing on performance provides the impetus to lean into growth areas while ensuring your commitment isn’t hijacked by the seductions of achievement. Focusing on growth sustains your intellectual humility, reminding you that results aren’t guaranteed apart from learning, and that you’re not merely entitled to your achievements — you have to earn them. And focusing on achievement helps sustain motivation for yourself and your team when the results you’re pursuing, and the learning gaps you’re closing, feel difficult. Ambition is a natural, healthy aspect of being a leader. Your innate desires to perform at your best, to grow and become better, and to achieve rewards from your efforts, all reflect your unique identities. These desires can be instructive if you study and harness them. As you consider future career paths, refine your sense of purpose in the world, or strengthen your leadership for broader opportunities, your ambitions can serve as a compass, guiding you toward the fulfilled and impacting leader you’ve imagined becoming. Read more on Managing yourself or related topics Leadership development and Leadership Ron Carucci is co-founder and managing partner at Navalent , working with CEOs and executives pursuing transformational change. He is the bestselling author of eight books, including To Be Honest and Rising to Power . Connect with him on Linked In at RonCarucci , and download his free “How Honest is My Team?” assessment. Tweet Post Share Annotate Save Get PDF Buy Copies Print Read more on Managing yourself or related topics Leadership development and Leadership Partner Center Diversity Latest Magazine Ascend Topics Podcasts Video Store The Big Idea Data & Visuals Case Selections HBR Learning Subscribe Explore HBR The Latest All Topics Magazine Archive The Big Idea Reading Lists Case Selections Video Podcasts Webinars Data & Visuals My Library Newsletters HBR Press HBR Ascend HBR Store Article Reprints Books Cases Collections Magazine Issues HBR Guide Series HBR 20-Minute Managers HBR Emotional Intelligence Series HBR Must Reads Tools About HBR Contact Us Advertise with Us Information for Booksellers/Retailers Masthead Global Editions Media Inquiries Guidelines for Authors HBR Analytic Services Copyright Permissions Manage My Account My Library Topic Feeds Orders Account Settings Email Preferences Account FAQ Help Center Contact Customer Service Follow HBR Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Your Newsreader About Us Careers Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Copyright Information Trademark Policy Harvard Business Publishing: Higher Education Corporate Learning Harvard Business Review Harvard Business School Copyright © Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved. Harvard Business Publishing is an affiliate of Harvard Business School.