Skip to main content Quakers in Britain Search Submit search Donate Faith Action Quaker communities Organisation News & events Children & young people Resources Giving Contact us All sections Donate Search Menu Faith Our faith Quaker journeys Our values Free resources and information about Quakers Find a meeting Our history Action International work Social action training and tools Quaker podcast Climate & economic justice The Ecumenical Accompaniment Programme in Palestine and Israel Peace Political engagement Social justice Grant-making Our stories Our organisation Our structure Young adult Quakers Meeting for Sufferings Give time Jobs and voluntary opportunities Book of Meetings Safeguarding Support for meetings Quaker roles Quaker groups News and events News Events Children & young people I'm a young Quaker... I'm a parent... I work with children and young people in a Quaker setting... I teach in a school... Volunteering at children and young people's events Quakers in education Resources Library Quaker faith & practice ​Reparations – what now? Quaker bookshop Free resources Newsletters Accessible documents Photographs Role-holder updates Giving Give online Set up regular giving In memory Gifts in wills Contact us FAQs and resources Contact us Staff contacts Friends House London The Quaker Centre Swarthmoor Hall Home Our organisation Meeting for Sufferings Working with Meeting for Sufferings Working with Meeting for Sufferings The Meeting for Sufferings agenda is planned by Meeting for Sufferings Arrangements Group, usually about a month before each meeting. This guidance on process and timing aims to help ensure that Meeting for Sufferings can deal with minutes effectively. Meeting for Sufferings: calendar of dates Deadline for minutes from Area Meetings and Central Committees: Meeting for Sufferings Arrangements Group meets approximately five weeks ahead of MfS to consider minutes and plan the agenda. (Send to: sufferings@quaker.org.uk) Deadline for feedback: Arrangements Committee meets shortly after each MfS to review the meeting. Members are always invited to contribute comments. (Send to: sufferings@quaker.org.uk) Optional sessions: The Arrangements Committee routinely arranges additional online sessions ahead of each MfS – they start at 7pm and are for 90 minutes. The dates so far agreed for the new triennium 2021 to 2024 are as follows: Meeting for Sufferings 2023 All meetings will be in hybrid form. Saturday 4 March Deadline for minutes to reach Arrangements Group 14 January Optional session for members of MfS 28 February, 7pm to 8.30pm Meeting for Sufferings 4 March, 10am to 4pm Deadline for feedback to Arrangements Committee 8 March Saturday 1 July Deadline for minutes to reach Arrangements Group 12 May Optional session for members of MfS 26 June, 7pm to 8.30pm Meeting for Sufferings 1 July, 10am to 4pm Deadline for feedback to Arrangements Committee 5 July Friday 6 to Sunday 8 October (residential – venue TBC) Deadline for minutes to reach Arrangements Group 18 August Optional session for members of MfS 28 September, 7pm to 8.30pm Meeting for Sufferings 6-8 October Deadline for feedback to Arrangements Committee 11 October Saturday 2 December Deadline for minutes to reach Arrangements Group 13 October Optional session for members of MfS 29 November, 7pm to 8.30pm Meeting for Sufferings 2 December 10am to 4pm Deadline for feedback to Arrangements Committee 6 December The Meeting for Sufferings agenda The Meeting for Sufferings agenda is planned by Meeting for Sufferings Arrangements Group, usually 4 to 6 weeks before each meeting. This guidance on process and timing aims to help ensure that Meeting for Sufferings can deal with minutes effectively. When will Meeting for Sufferings respond? It helps if minutes reach the Meeting for Sufferings Arrangements Group by the dates indicated below. We cannot guarantee that minutes received later than this will be included on the agenda of the relevant meeting. If it is important that the item reaches Meeting for Sufferings speedily, please say so and explain why. Why send a minute to Meeting for Sufferings? Friends might want to send a minute to Meeting for Sufferings for a number of reasons: because they have identified a concern that relates to the corporate life of Britain Yearly Meeting to inform Quakers throughout Britain about a locally-held concern to test an emerging concern to seek coordinated or centrally managed action. For Quakers, “concern" has a very particular meaning. It is a special spiritual calling to carry out a service. Minutes are usually better dealt with at Meeting for Sufferings when concerns have first been tested thoroughly at the area meeting. Who can send a minute? These bodies may communicate formally with Meeting for Sufferings by sending it a minute: area meetings General Meeting for Scotland Crynwyr Cymru/Quakers in Wales London Quakers Property Trust Young Friends General Meeting Britain Yearly Meeting Trustees the standing committees appointed by Yearly Meeting or Meeting for Sufferings. Other groups are welcome to contact the Meeting for Sufferings clerks informally. What should minutes contain? The contents listed below should either be included in the minute or attached alongside it. Some parts may be able to be provided easily. Others may take time to put together – for example, for Friends to gather new information, and listen to leadings. This guidance draws on Quaker faith & practice (offsite link) , especially sections 4.19 , 8.11-13 and 13.09-18 . Explanation of the concern It is helpful to know how the concern has been tested: What experiences have led to this concern and how is it being addressed locally? What commitment has the Meeting made? Has a central or standing committee, or Britain Yearly Meeting (BYM) staff been consulted? Please attach any supporting documents or minutes. Supporting Our faith in the future Please explain how the concern will help to work towards Meeting for Sufferings' vision, Our faith in the future . Linking concerns to faith What is the faith basis of the concern? It is important to explain this fully. Minutes should also explain what is distinctively Quaker about the concern, and about the way we might be called to act. Please test whether and why we might be called to act alone, or whether it would be better to join with other groups taking similar action. What is the intention? Please set out the purpose of sending the minute – for example: to inform Meeting for Sufferings and Quakers throughout Britain about a locally-held concern to test an emerging concern to lead to action – if so, what action and who might act? Contact us Siobhán Haire, Deputy Recording Clerk Tel: 020 7663 1101 Email: sufferings@quaker.org.uk Address: Meeting for Sufferings Friends House 173 Euston Road London, NW1 2BJ Our organisation menu Our organisation Our structure Young adult Quakers Meeting for Sufferings Papers and minutes Working with Meeting for Sufferings Practical arrangements for Sufferings Our faith in the future Meeting for Sufferings groups and projects Give time Jobs and voluntary opportunities Book of Meetings Safeguarding Support for meetings Quaker roles Quaker groups Find a meeting About Quakers Our work Our organisation News & events Children & young people Modern slavery statement Jobs Blog Giving Safeguarding Yearly Meeting Contact us Newsletters Connect with us Twitter Facebook Youtube Instagram Britain Yearly Meeting of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers), Friends House, 173 Euston Road, London NW1 2BJ Telephone: 020 7663 1000 Registered charity number: 1127633 Privacy policy Version 0.11.0