Hello, Username Log In Sign Up Username My Words Recents Settings Log Out Games & Quizzes Thesaurus Features Word Finder Word of the Day Shop Join MWU More Shop M-W Books Join MWU Log In Username My Words Recents Account Log Out Settings My Words Recents Account Log Out Est. 1828 Dictionary Definition noun verb adjective noun 3 noun verb adjective Synonyms Synonym Chooser Example Sentences Word History Phrases Containing Entries Near Cite this Entry Citation Share Kids Definition Kids Medical Definition Medical Legal Definition Legal More from M-W Show more Show more Citation Share Kids Medical Legal More from M-W Save Word To save this word, you'll need to log in. Log In bulk 1 of 3 noun ˈbəlk also ˈbu̇lk Synonyms of bulk 1 a : magnitude impressed by the sheer bulk of her accomplishment b biology : material that forms a mass in the intestine especially : fiber sense 1d need more bulk in their diet 2 a : body especially : a large or corpulent human body he hauled his … bulk out of the armchair — Herman Wouk b : an organized structure especially when viewed primarily as a mass of material the giant bulk of Mt. Katahdin — Jackson Rivers c : a ponderous shapeless mass 3 : the main or greater part spent the bulk of his time in the office the bulk of the population bulk 2 of 3 verb bulked ; bulking ; bulks transitive verb 1 : to cause to swell or bulge : stuff bulk out a report with lots of graphs and charts 2 : to gather into a mass or aggregate intransitive verb 1 : swell , expand 2 : to appear as a factor : loom a consideration that bulks large in everyone's thinking bulk 3 of 3 adjective 1 : being in large quantities or not divided into separate units : being in bulk bulk shipments of food bulk mailings 2 : of or relating to materials in bulk bulk prices Phrases in bulk 1 : not divided into parts or packaged in separate units 2 : in large quantities buys rice in bulk Synonyms Noun generality lion's share majority mass preponderance Verb accumulate amass assemble collect concentrate congregate constellate corral garner gather group lump pick up round up See all Synonyms & Antonyms in Thesaurus Choose the Right Synonym for bulk bulk , mass , volume mean the aggregate that forms a body or unit. bulk implies an aggregate that is impressively large, heavy, or numerous. the darkened bulk of the skyscrapers mass suggests an aggregate made by piling together things of the same kind. a mass of boulders volume applies to an aggregate without shape or outline and capable of flowing or fluctuating. a tremendous volume of water Example Sentences Noun We spent the bulk of the summer at the beach. Farming makes up the bulk of the country's economy. The great bulk of these people are extremely poor. Despite his bulk , he's a very fast runner. Adjective They sent bulk shipments of food to the country. Recent Examples on the Web Noun About a fifth of shoppers are turning away from products that have been shrunk in favor of buying in bulk for better value for money, according to Barclays. — Katie Linsell, Bloomberg.com , 6 June 2023 Garments that don’t end up in local landfills are often shipped in bulk to countries in the Global South. — Heather Souvaine Horn, The New Republic , 2 June 2023 This slim case offers a dignified leather look without adding any bulk or weightiness. — Kaitlyn Mcinnis, Travel + Leisure , 25 May 2023 Take the papaya salad, for which Ratana cuts the fruit by hand, so the pieces are irregular, and also fries raw peanuts instead of buying roasted ones in bulk . — Tom Sietsema, Washington Post , 17 May 2023 Ahead of its release, the JoBros debuted a bulk of The Album on the final evening of their five-night Broadway residency at the Marquis Theatre and also played one-night-only shows at London’s Royal Albert Hall and The Theater at Ace Hotel in Los Angeles. — Glenn Rowley, Billboard , 12 May 2023 Having too many unhealthy bacteria in your gut may cause inflammation.29 Weight Management Whole grains are a source of insoluble fiber, which moves food through the digestive system and adds bulk to your diet. — Health Editorial Team, Health , 8 May 2023 With their strongest support, this bralette creates shape without adding bulk . — Lauren Anderson, womenshealthmag.com , 6 May 2023 It’s been a busy offseason for Oats replacing a bulk of his roster and filling two of the three assistant coach vacancies on his bench. — Nick Alvarez | Nalvarez@al.com, al , 20 Apr. 2023 Verb Even professional bodybuilders are always cutting and then bulking . — Men's Health , 6 June 2023 After bulking itself up when the U.K. was in Europe aiming to become part of the biggest exchange in the EU, after Brexit the exchange has shrunk, selling off the Italian Stock Exchange and buying for a huge sum a chunk of the old Reuters. — Clem Chambers, Forbes , 4 May 2023 But insoluble fiber, the type that turns to gel when mixed with liquid, actually bulks your stools and helps prevent diarrhea, Cassell says. — Perri O. Blumberg, Men's Health , 15 Mar. 2023 So the media companies need to bulk out. — Georg Szalai, The Hollywood Reporter , 25 Feb. 2022 Heavy weights will bulk you up. — Star Tribune , 22 Jan. 2021 Bolden expects the Buckeyes to bulk the young hammer up to further enhance his physical game. — Scott Springer, The Enquirer , 21 Dec. 2022 Texas has star power in Robinson and Ewers but Alabama will bring a deeper overall roster to Austin where Sarkisian is still working to bulk the two-deep. — Michael Casagrande | Mcasagrande@al.com, al , 9 Sep. 2022 To do this with zucchini tops, use the same halving and par-boiling technique as the pickles, then combine the zucchini tops with thinly sliced scallions or garlic chives to bulk them up. — Asha Loupy, Bon Appétit , 29 Aug. 2022 Adjective Farmer Brothers has been a bulk ground coffee supplier to TreeHouse Foods for single-serve pods and ready-to-drink beverages. — Paul O'donnell, Dallas News , 7 June 2023 According to Statista, turkey is the most popular deli meat in the U.S. based on bulk meat sales, with ham following closely behind. — USA TODAY , 4 June 2023 The research by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) found that meth seizures in East and Southeast Asia, which spiked to record highs during the pandemic as cartels switched to bigger and riskier bulk shipments, returned to pre-Covid numbers last year. — Jessie Yeung, CNN , 2 June 2023 Jochnowitz is running on a platform of cleaning up the waterways and environment in the town and wants to improve waste and recycling services with new initiatives like bulk pickup. — Caitlin O'kane, CBS News , 4 May 2023 Media will become both more fragmented and interactive, with a cascading effect from bulk sales, that includes the broadest of distribution, to micro transactions. — Leonard Armato, Forbes , 4 May 2023 In one video, McGlothin lambastes people about bulk pickup violations, unauthorized vehicles parked on the street, and an unauthorized Porta Potty. — Timothy Fanning, San Antonio Express-News , 3 May 2023 Therefore, steer clear of cheap, bulk monofilament when fishing for trout. — Jerry Audet, Field & Stream , 3 May 2023 The top trays also swing out, making the lower bulk storage less of a black hole than in other tackle box arrangements. — Justin Park, Popular Mechanics , 2 May 2023 See More These examples are programmatically compiled from various online sources to illustrate current usage of the word 'bulk.' Any opinions expressed in the examples do not represent those of Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback about these examples. Word History Etymology Noun, Verb, and Adjective Middle English, heap, bulk, from Old Norse bulki cargo First Known Use Noun 15th century, in the meaning defined at sense 1a Verb circa 1529, in the meaning defined at transitive sense 1 Adjective 1693, in the meaning defined at sense 1 Time Traveler The first known use of bulk was in the 15th century See more words from the same century Phrases Containing bulk bulk out bulk up bulk large the bulk in bulk bulk out bulk up bulk large the bulk in bulk Dictionary Entries Near bulk Bulinus bulk bulk density See More Nearby Entries Cite this Entry Style MLA Chicago APA Merriam-Webster “Bulk.” Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary , Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/bulk. Accessed 17 Jun. 2023. Copy Citation Share Post the Definition of bulk to Facebook Facebook Share the Definition of bulk on Twitter Twitter Kids Definition bulk 1 of 3 noun ˈbəlk 1 : greatness of size or mass : volume 2 : a large body or mass 3 : the main or greater part did the bulk of the work 4 : fiber sense 1f bulk 2 of 3 verb 1 : to cause to swell or bulge 2 : to appear as a consideration an issue that bulks large in her mind bulk 3 of 3 adjective : being in bulk bulk foods Medical Definition bulk noun ˈbəlk : material (as indigestible fibrous residues of food) that forms a mass in the intestine especially : fiber sense 2 Legal Definition bulk 1 of 2 noun ˈbəlk : a large mass bulk 2 of 2 adjective 1 : being in bulk bulk shipment of wheat bulk foods 2 : of or relating to materials in bulk bulk buyer More from Merriam-Webster on bulk Nglish: Translation of bulk for Spanish Speakers Britannica English: Translation of bulk for Arabic Speakers Last Updated: 14 Jun 2023 - Updated example sentences Love words? Need even more definitions? Subscribe to America's largest dictionary and get thousands more definitions and advanced search—ad free! Merriam-Webster unabridged Can you solve 4 words at once? Play Play Can you solve 4 words at once? Play Play Word of the Day microcosm See Definitions and Examples » Get Word of the Day daily email! Words at Play Palter, Dissemble, and Other Words for Lying Trust us Skunk, Bayou, and Other Words with Native American Origins You've used more than you might think Words For Things You Didn't Know Have Names, Vol. 2 When 'thingamajig' and 'thingamabob' just won't do When Were Words First Used? Look up any year to find out Ask the Editors What Is 'Semantic Bleaching'? How 'literally' can mean 'figuratively' How to Remember 'Affect' and 'Effect' A simple way to keep them apart. (Most of the time.) Why Is There a 'C' in 'Indict'? And who put it there, anyway? 'Everyday' vs. 'Every Day' A simple trick to keep them separate Word Games Commonly Confused Words Quiz Vol. 2 A quiz to (peak/peek/pique) your interest. Take the quiz People of Interest Quiz Can you tell the "sommeliers" from the "spelunkers"? Take the quiz Name That Thing You know what it looks like… but what is it cal... Take the quiz Spelling Bee Quiz Can you outdo past winners of the National Spelli... Take the quiz Merriam Webster Learn a new word every day. Delivered to your inbox! OTHER MERRIAM-WEBSTER DICTIONARIES MERRIAM-WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY SCRABBLE ® WORD FINDER MERRIAM-WEBSTER DICTIONARY API NGLISH - SPANISH-ENGLISH TRANSLATION BRITANNICA ENGLISH - ARABIC TRANSLATION FOLLOW US Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Browse the Dictionary: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z 0-9 BIO GEO Home Help About Us Shop Advertising Info Dictionary API Contact Us Join MWU Videos Word of the Year Kid's Dictionary Law Dictionary Medical Dictionary Privacy Policy Terms of Use Browse the Thesaurus Browse the Medical Dictionary Browse the Legal Dictionary Browse the Kid's Dictionary © 2023 Merriam-Webster, Incorporated