NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT News Sport News London UK US World Tech Royal Family Cost of living Russia-Ukraine Weird Sport Football Premier League Transfer News Cricket Boxing Tennis Snooker Entertainment Showbiz TV Film Music Gaming Soaps EastEnders Emmerdale Coronation Street Hollyoaks Lifestyle Sex Health Property Fashion Food Travel Horoscopes Money Shopping Video Platform Features In Focus Lifeline Campaign Shopping More Puzzles Newsletters Discounts Submit Stuff Competitions Advertise Weather Trending Privacy Search Metro Stay in touch MetroUK @MetroUK @Metro.co.uk O2 Arena shredded by Storm Eunice with winds ripping huge part of domed roof off Comment Faye Brown Friday 18 Feb 2022 12:25 pm Share this article via facebook Share Share this article via whatsapp Share this article via twitter Share this article via messenger Share this with Share this article via email Share this article via sms Share this article via flipboard Copy link 3.3k Shares The O2 Arena has been torn apart by Storm Eunice (Picture: PA) London ’s O2 Arena has been shredded by Storm Eunice with winds ripping off huge chunks of its famous dome. The iconic landmark suffered severe damage as 60mph gales pummelled the capital. Images show a huge hole has appeared in the music venue’s tented roof, with bits of the destroyed white panels seen floating in the Thames. Witnesses watched on in shock as the 20,000-seater structure in Greenwich fell apart. One person who shared footage of the incident on Twitter wrote: ‘The O2 arena has just ripped open.’ To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video The O2 arena suffered severe damage as 60mph gales pummelled the capital (Picture: Twitter/FHubbard) Huge chunks of the tented white roof are missing(Picture: PA) Witnesses watching the damage unfold say the hole in the roof is growing (Picture: Sharon Forbes) In another video, a piercing sound can be heard as more and more of the dome flies off. One local who watched the destruction unfold said she was worried the O2 ‘would become a thing of the past’. She tweeted: ‘It’s madness! Started with a small part and now a whole chunk is missing.’ Images suggest at least four sections of the sheeted roof have been totally destroyed. The damage appeared to cause a leak, with footage showing a reddish liquid spurting out of what looks like piping and covering a portion of the roof. The London Fire Brigade said around 1,000 people were evacuated following the ‘partial roof collapse’. The O2 stayed open despite the Met Office putting London on a rare red weather warning and other London attractions erring on the side of caution by closing to the public, including all royal parks. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video Damage to the roof of the O2 Arena (Picture: PA) The iconic London landmark has been shredded (Picture: PA) This hole has been steadily growing as strong winds tear through the capital (Picture: PA) One member of staff described panicked scenes as visitors heard ‘crashing and slapping’ sounds as the roof started to tear. Freddie, 30, told Metro.co.uk: ‘I got in this morning and it was pretty noisy. ‘Then we could hear a slapping sound, then a crashing. That’s when we thought it’s probably had a tear somewhere. It sounded like a banging or a crashing, then it just got steadily worse and tore open. ‘Security then told us they were evacuating the shopping centre part. A few people started running and got a bit panicky.’ To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video The fire brigade is at the scene (Picture:REUTERS) a View of the damage from inside the arena Freddie claimed the roofis ‘quite patched up anyway’and staff have to put buckets out when it rains. ‘When you’re inside you can see darker lines; darker patches. It leaks a lot they’ve always got the buckets out. It’s generally everywhere, not just one patch. I wasn’t totally surprised,’ he said. The tear happened above the Icon shopping centre within the arena, roughly between the Adidas & Nike stores. Freddie said the venue ‘thankfully wasn’t very busy’ when the roof ripped open. The building has been closed for the rest of the day, but Freddie cast doubt on it reopening tomorrow. He said: ‘They have said they are gonna send an email out later to let us know if it’ll be closed tomorrow, but I don’t think they’ve got seven spare sections of roof lying around so it’s unlikely. More: Trending Storms set to bring heatwave to a thundering halt after hottest day of the year Nottingham attack suspect accused of killing three people in rampage is named Woman woke up ‘unable to move’ after brushing past ‘UK’s most dangerous plant’ Man, 34, dies on railway tracks after being chased by police officers ‘I don’t think they’d be able to put any events on. How many more sections will go now the wind is in there? I could definitely see more sections coming off if the wind stays like this.’ The tear happened above the Icon shopping centre The O2 has been closed while repairs get underway(Picture: PA) Station Commander Chris Kamara, who was at the scene, said there had been no actual collapse or structural damage. He said: ‘Firefighters cordoned off the area to ensure no one was injured by any further falling debris. ‘There has been no actual collapse or structural damage to the building, but due to the nature of the canvas material which covers The O2, it has come loose in high winds and looks quite dramatic. ‘Crews have made the scene safe and The O2 is now closed until further notice.’ But building expert Stephen McKenzie, former vice chair of the emergency planning society in London, said fixing it will still be ‘a complex operation’. He told Metro.co.uk: ‘It will now be a case of how do they stop the wind action destroying more of the roof, if that’s even possible, and then the remedial works to recover the structure as wind and weather tight. As the building was built over 3yrs (1996-1999) this is now a considerable and complex operation.’ The O2, formerly known as the Millennium Dome, hosts major events including concerts and features restaurants, bars, shops and a cinema. Visitors can also do a 90-minute climb of the recognisable roof for views of London as part of its Up at the O2 experience. On its official Twitter account the O2 is described as: ‘Not just a tent. The world’s most popular music and entertainment venue.’ Simply Red, who had been due to play the venue this weekend but postponed due to Covid, described the damage as ‘tragic’. A message on the venue’s website says tonight’s Fugees concert has been cancelled. An O2 spokesperson said: ‘Due to today’s adverse weather conditions, we can confirm that there has been some damage caused to the tent fabric in our roof at The O2. ‘The affected areas have been cleared and The O2 will remain closed for the rest of the day. The safety of our visitors remains of paramount importance, and we will continue to assess the ongoing situation and act accordingly.’ Storm Eunice blows off a church spire in Somerset A fallen tree in Saint Margarets, London (Picture: Getty) Two lorries on their side on the M4 during storm Eunice (Picture: Getty) The damage comes as Storm Eunice, feared to be the worst in 30 years, wrecks havoc across the country. Tens of thousands of homes have been left without power, while flights, trains and ferry services have been suspended and roads, schools and businesses have shut. Potentially record-breaking gusts of more than 122mph have been recorded in the Isle of Wight. Gusts of up to 80mph are expected in London, where a major incident has been declared due to the huge number of 999 calls. Almost the entire tube network in London has been suspended or is suffering delays. People have been told to stay at home for their safety amid the risk of falling tress and flying debris. A major road in Lambeth was closed earlier to day due to collapsed scaffolding, while shocking footage from Somerset shows the jaw-dropping moment a spire falls off a church tower. London, the south east and the south west have been put under a rare ‘red’ alert, meaning there is a danger to life. Weather warnings across the country have been extended over the weekend , when more rain and wind is expected. Additional reporting by Daniel Lynch . Got a story? Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk . Or you can submit your videos and pictures here . For more stories like this, check our news page . Follow Metro.co.uk on Twitter and Facebook for the latest news updates. You can now also get Metro.co.uk articles sent straight to your device. Sign up for our daily push alerts here . Sign Up for News Updates Get your need-to-know latest news, feel-good stories, analysis and more Sign up Privacy Policy Share this article via facebook Share Share this article via whatsapp Share this article via twitter Share this article via messenger Share this with Share this article via email Share this article via sms Share this article via flipboard Copy link Comment now Share this article via comment Comment Share this article via facebook Share Share this article via whatsapp MORE Storm Eunice Man married woman at a Holiday Inn - but he already had another wife First picture of ‘beautiful’ girl, 15, who died in river at village duck race Mum of Nottingham attack victim, 19, says killer is 'evil and monstrous' Here's how to get help with your fuel bills What's trending now More trending stories Nottingham attack suspect accused of killing three people in rampage is named Boy, 15, who stabbed 14-year-old to death with kitchen knife jailed for 12 years Nottingham attack suspect is a former University of Nottingham student Mum and partner jailed for ‘sadistic’ killing of her son, 9, after months of cruel abuse Double child killer Colin Pitchfork to be released from prison again Video More videos Tesco forced to cordon off car park… for a seagull Bathers flee to safety as a shark nears the shoreline off Costa Blanca Woman dances in the background of Nottingham attack news report Police detain man after deadly attack near Germany's Neuschwanstein Castle More videos Home › News › UK Today's Best Discounts More discounts Experiences and days out Find exclusive Groupon discount codes on local deals Women & Men's fashion promotions Discover great verified ASOS discount codes Best adidas discount codes Upgrade your style with manual picked vouchers NordVPN coupons Save on the best VPN provider AO discount codes Save big on your appliaces with AO promo codes News Sport Entertainment Soaps Lifestyle Puzzles Platform Video Search Metro MetroUK @MetroUK @Metro.co.uk © 2023 Associated Newspapers Limited Powered by WordPress.com VIP Your ad choices Contributors Newzit Daily Mail Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Do not sell or share my personal information Site map Contact Us About Back to top Get us in your feed Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter