Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 29 29 Strathallan, 5 Eglinton Drive, Giffnock See map Offers Over £950,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 09/05/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×4 BATHROOMS ×3 SIZE 2,443 sq. ft. (227 sq. m.) TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features A beautiful Edwardian, blonde sandstone detached house set within large corner gardens within the heart of Giffnock. Situated within one of Giffnocks most sought after, private residential enclaves within walking distance to Giffnock village. A stunning Edwardian blonde sandstone villa set within south facing corner garden grounds. Systematically improved, upgraded and redesigned by the long term owners. Gated access to large driveway, sizeable south facing gardens and integral garage. Property description Description Strathallan is an exquisite, charming and individual blonde sandstone detached villa built circa 1905 that has been professionally remodelled, upgraded and redesigned and offers exceptional family accommodation encompassed over a two-storey layout. The property is distinguished by its broad fronted plot and the house enjoys a slightly elevated setting within larger style south facing corner garden grounds with gated driveway and garage. The property is being presented to the market for the first time in many years and offers a rare opportunity to acquire this significant piece of real estate within this exclusive pocket of Giffnock. The property has been systematically improved and maintained by the present owners with notable improvements including upgraded gas central heating system and boiler, upgraded slate roof system in addition to an extension to the rear circa 2000, upgraded, refurbished and replaced sash & case double glazed windows, maintained security alarm system, CCTV security and the property has been sympathetically decorated internally. The ground floor offers storm doors leading into vestibule with original stained glass inner door leading into a beautiful, traditional style reception hallway giving access to all accommodation via traditional panelled doors with matching surrounds, architraves and beautiful cornicing. The bay windowed lounge, formal dining room and bay windowed family room all have focal point open fireplaces, and the rear hallway gives access to a useful downstairs home office/study with French doors to gardens. The upgraded and refitted dining sized kitchen has a full range of fitted appliances and range cooker with access to a large laundry/utility room with sink, walk-in pantry store and useful, integral access to the garage (17'6” x 11'7”). The large rear hallway/boot room also provides access to guest bedroom with modern shower room adjacent. Traditional broad staircase with original banister and an outstanding stained glass decorative arch window on half landing leads to upper landing space with access to principal bedroom with extensive built-in storage and smart en-suite bathroom with modern fitments, two further double bedrooms, home office area and well fitted family bathroom with tiling and separate shower. Partially floored attic. Strathallan sits within splendid sized corner garden grounds with deep, broad lawned garden to the front, gated access to fully enclosed, south facing rear gardens with driveway, patio and lawn area. Single garage attached. EER Band E. Local Area Giffnock continues to be one of the most desirable residential suburbs on Glasgow's south side. A haven for young growing families, the district is synonymous with some of the best schooling in the West of Scotland. Moreover, there are excellent transport links via bus and train close at hand, in addition to local motorway links (M77/M8) providing swift access to the city centre and Ayrshire. There are two train stations within close proximity, Whitecraigs Train Station and Giffnock Train Station. There are numerous independent shops, restaurants and delicatessens only a short walk away. An abundance of sports and leisure facilities are available within East Renfrewshire including David Lloyd Sports Club, Nuffield Health Gym, Whitecraigs Golf Club, Giffnock and Whitecraigs Tennis Clubs and Rouken Glen Park which was voted UK's Best Park of 2016. Directions From our office on Ayr Road, Newton Mearns travel city bound and on reaching Eastwood Toll continue onwards onto Fenwick Road, proceed onwards through the pedestrian traffic lights turning second left into Eglinton Drive and the property is on the left hand side. Brochures Brochure 1 Web Details Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC 1 Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent Strathallan, 5 Eglinton Drive, Giffnock Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Giffnock Station 0.3 miles Williamwood Station 0.5 miles Whitecraigs Station 0.8 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Corum, Newton Mearns 134 Ayr Road, Newton Mearns, Glasgow, G77 6EG Experience the difference Once, estate agents were estate agents. Nowadays, they're often lawyers, mortgage brokers and letting agents too - but not at Corum. We work exclusively in estate agency, meaning we devote 100% of our time doing what our customers want: securing the best price for their property. The agency's original founding partners worked together at one of the largest estate agencies in the country, until a company takeover led to a wholesale focus on Financial Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Corum, Newton Mearns 134 Ayr Road, Newton Mearns, Glasgow, G77 6EG More properties from this agent Call agent : 0141 673 1647 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference NM3968. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Corum, Newton Mearns . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0141 673 1647 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho