Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 10 10 Site With Planning For 96 Bedroom Block, Birmingham, Birmingham, B7 See map £1,999,999 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Reduced on 06/06/2023 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. Key features Site With Planning For 96 Bed Student Accommodation Part Conversion & Part Demolition & New Build To Convert Existing Community Centre Full Planning Permission For Studios and Cluster Flats of 5, 6 & 7 Bed Units (Total Units 96) 0.3 Miles to Duddeston Train Station , 1.1 Mile to Millenium Point, 1.2 miles to Aston University Selling @ £20,833 / plot 0.903 Acre Site Freehold Dedicated Two Way Cycle Lane Direct To Aston University PLANNING: 2019/10274/PA Parking Facilities Property description **A UNIQUE PART CONVERSION, PART DEMOLITION & NEW BUILD OPPORTUNITY FOR A 96 BED STUDENT ACCOMMODATION ** The OPA are delighted to present this rare opportunity to acquire this 0.93 acre site. The property benefits from full planning permission for part conversion, part demolition and new build to convert the existing community centre (D1) to a 96 bed student accommodation (Sui Generis) with associated parking, amenity space and landscaping” LOCATION The property is located in on a prominent position on the junction of Nechells Park Way (A47) and Melvina Road. It is conveniently positioned for student accommodation being within only 1.1 miles of The BCU Campus and 1.2 miles to Aston University and is ideally located for those studying at the various universities and colleges across the city. Birmingham is a student city: 80,000 students - studying at eight universities. Birmingham ranks as one of the most popular in Europe in which to invest and is currently attracting £billions of investment and is recognised as the fastest growing UK city for property price growth There has never been a better time to invest in Birmingham. The city centre has been transformed by the £600m regeneration of New Street station, HS2 is coming and major developments continue across the region. Within close proximity are: Duddeston Train Station: 0.3 miles Millennium Point: 1.1 miles A38 Motorway: 1.2 miles HS2: 2 miles Birmingham Bull Ring: 2 miles Moor Street Station: 2 miles PLANNING: 2019/10274/PA Planning Approval: Part conversion and part demolition and new build to convert existing community centre (D1) to 96 bed student accommodation (Sui Generis) with associated parking, amenity space and landscaping” ACCOMMODATION – See Schedule The proposed accommodation will include: Ground Floor Cluster 1 / 6 beds Cluster 2 / 7 beds Cluster 3 / 5 beds Cluster 4 / 6 beds Cluster 5 / 6 beds Studio Flat 1 Studio Flat 2 Studio Flat 3 Lower Ground Floor Cluster 1 / 6 beds Studio Flat 1 Studio Flat 2 Studio Flat 3 Studio Flat 4 Studio Flat 5 Studio Flat 6 First Floor Cluster 1 / 6 beds Cluster 2 / 7 beds Cluster 3 / 5 beds Cluster 4 / 6 beds Cluster 5 / 6 beds Studio Flat 1 Studio Flat 2 Studio Flat 3 Second Floor Cluster 1 / 7 beds Studio Flat 1 Studio Flat 2 Studio Flat 3 Studio Flat 4 Studio Flat 5 Studio Flat 6 Studio Flat 7 Studio Flat 8 Studio Flat 9 Studio Flat 10 Studio Flat 11 TENURE We are advised the property is freehold and is being sold with vacant possession. VIEWINGS Viewings are via The OPA. BUYERS FEE Buyer's Reservation Fee of 2% of The Purchase Price. Minimum Fee £2400. (All fees inclusive of VAT). T&Cs apply. The OPA’s “Secure It Now Exclusivity Package” This property is being offered under The OPA’s “Secure It Now Exclusivity Package” This is an innovative secure and straightforward way to purchase this property. Here are the benefits for you: • Secure your dream property straight away • Properties are realistically priced • Similar to a “normal” or “conventional” sale with a few measures to protect the buyer and the seller • Focuses on speed • Mortgage buyer friendly • Suitable for first time buyer • Mortgage buyers and cash buyers compete on equal terms • No competitive bidding • No risk of being gazumped • Minimises risk of fall throughs Secure It Now Exclusivity Package - How does it work? Our sellers are motivated and willing to price their properties competitively in order to ensure a fast and secure sale. You can now secure the purchase with a buyer’s “Secure It Now Exclusivity fee “ of 2% which includes : • A legally binding contract granting the buyer exclusive rights to purchase the property within a given timeframe (usually 56 days / 8 weeks ) • Paying the Exclusivity Fee ensures that the seller takes their property off the market as soon as the sale is agreed and reserves it exclusively for you. • This prevents the risk of gazumping and the • helps you avoid losing money and wasting time which most buyers like you may face with the traditional estate agent's approach. • You get a fixed exclusivity period (approximately 8 weeks) to complete, safe in the knowledge that you will not be gazumped or outbid by another buyer. Step 1 - Register your interest Step 2 - Sort out your finances Step 3 - Arrange a viewing / Virtual Tour Step 4 - Make an offer Step 5 - Secure your purchase using our buy and Secure It Now Exclusivity package Step 6 - Exchange and completion Next Steps – Do Not Miss Out - Please note this is a realistically priced property and is likely going to create a fair amount of buying interest. If you're interested in buying this property, we'd urge you to contact us immediately to avoid losing out. Please note this is a non-refundable exclusivity fee in addition to the purchase price. MONEY LAUNDERING REGULATIONS - Intending purchasers will be asked to produce identification documentation at a later stage and we would ask for your co-operation in order that there will be no delay in agreeing the sale. 2: These particulars do not constitute part or all of an offer or contract. 3: The measurements indicated are supplied for guidance only and as such must be considered incorrect. 4: Potential buyers are advised to recheck the measurements before committing to any expense. 5: All descriptions, dimensions, references to condition and necessary permission for use and occupation, and other details are given without responsibility and any intending purchasers or tenants should not rely on them as statements or representations of fact but must satisfy themselves by inspection or otherwise as to the correctness of each of them; 6: No persons in the employment of The OPA has any authority to make or give any representation or warranty whatever in relation to this property. No services, fixtures, fittings or appliances, including central heating, have been tested by the Agent at the time of printing. All references to parts of the fabric, material, decoration, external or internal features or grounds of the property are made without any warranty as to their conditions or effectiveness. Where definite checks have been made, such results will be made clear at the appropriate place in the particulars of sale. Every effort has been made by the Agents to obtain accurate information from the correct sources. However, intending purchasers and other readers are asked to make their own arrangements regarding verification of any statements expressed in these particulars of sale. “Please be advised that this property may have been owned by the current seller for under six months, or the seller may have the exclusive right to sell the property. If you require any further clarification, please speak to a representative of The OPA.” Any reference to, or use of any part of the property is not a statement that any necessary planning, building regulations or other consent has been obtained. All photographs shown are indicative and cannot be guaranteed to represent the complete interior scheme or items included in the sale. No person in our employment has any authority to make or give any representation or warranty whatsoever in relation to this property. Misrepresentation Act 1967: The OPA for themselves and for the vendors or lessors of this property whose agents they are, give notice that: (1) These particulars do not amount to, nor amount to any part of, an offer or contract. (2) None of the statements contained in these particulars should be relied on as statements or representations of fact, therefore all prospective purchasers or tenants must satisfy themselves as to their accuracy. Read more Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent Site With Planning For 96 Bedroom Block, Birmingham, Birmingham, B7 Approximate location Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Duddeston Station 0.2 miles Aston Station 0.9 miles Adderley Park Station 0.9 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent The Online Property Agency, Birmingham Sovereign Court Graham Street, Birmingham, B1 3JR Are you fed-up with traditional property agent attitude and fees? We're with you all the way. That's why The Online Property Agency (The OPA) has been built by property experts, from the ground up, with you in mind. The OPA offers a unique property platform that benefits both sellers and buyers by applying some very simple principles: * Understand the needs of both the buyer and the seller. * Create a process that suits everyone. * Do everything Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY The Online Property Agency, Birmingham Sovereign Court Graham Street, Birmingham, B1 3JR More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 740 1000 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 26369296. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by The Online Property Agency, Birmingham . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 740 1000 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho