LANGUAGE TRANSLATOR GAMES SCHOOLS BLOG RESOURCES More English English French German Italian Spanish Portuguese Hindi Chinese Korean Japanese More Log In English Dictionary Thesaurus Word Lists Grammar English Easy Learning Grammar Grammar Patterns English Usage Teaching Resources Video Guides Conjugations Sentences Video Learn English Video pronunciations Build your vocabulary Quiz English grammar English collocations English confusables English idioms English images English usage Thematic word lists English French German Italian Spanish Portuguese Hindi Chinese Korean Japanese English Dictionary Grammar Definition of 'judgmatically' Share × Credits × judgmatically in British English ( ˌdʒʌdʒˈmætɪk ə lɪ ) adverb archaic in the manner of a judge Collins English Dictionary . Copyright © HarperCollins Publishers You may also like English Quiz Confusables Language Lover's Blog Translate your text Pronunciation Playlists Word of the day: 'sofrito' NEW from Collins! English Grammar Collins Apps Trends of judgmatically View usage for: All Years Last 10 years Last 50 years Last 100 years Last 300 years Browse alphabetically judgmatically judging judging by/judging from/to judge from judgmatic judgmatically judgment Judgment Book judgment by default All ENGLISH words that begin with 'J' Source Definition of judgmatically from the Collins English Dictionary Read about the team of authors behind Collins Dictionaries. New from Collins xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Quick word challenge Quiz Review Question: 1 - Score: 0 / 5 BIRDS What is this an image of? puffin starling eagle thrush BIRDS Drag the correct answer into the box. blackbird magpie lark crane BIRDS Drag the correct answer into the box. pelican penguin pheasant long-eared owl BIRDS What is this an image of? thrush puffin pigeon sparrow BIRDS Drag the correct answer into the box. peacock puffin stork dove Your score: Check See the answer Next Next quiz Review Jun 15, 2023 Word of the day sofrito a seasoned mixture of fried vegetables, used as a base for dishes in Mediterranean and Caribbean cookery SEE FULL DEFINITION SEE PREVIOUS WORDS Sign up for our newsletter Get the latest news and gain access to exclusive updates and offers Sign me up Latest Word Submissions UPF Jun 13, 2023 falooda Jun 13, 2023 bop Jun 13, 2023 decouple Jun 13, 2023 View More Submit What’s the difference between lucky and happy? In today's Learning English post we explain the difference between lucky and happy. Improve your English with Collins. Read more Seven-letter words in Scrabble This week's blog takes a look at those all-important seven-letter words, crucial to scoring big in Scrabble. Read more What’s the difference between high and tall? This week we are looking at two words which are sometimes confused by learners of English: high and tall. Improve your English with Collins. Read more Collins English Dictionary Apps Download our English Dictionary apps - available for both iOS and Android. Read more Collins Dictionaries for Schools Our new online dictionaries for schools provide a safe and appropriate environment for children. And best of all it's ad free, so sign up now and start using at home or in the classroom. Read more Word lists We have almost 200 lists of words from topics as varied as types of butterflies, jackets, currencies, vegetables and knots! Amaze your friends with your new-found knowledge! Read more Scrabble score for 'judgmatically': 29 Wordle Helper Stuck at Wordle? Try our helper to maintain your current streak! xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Quick word challenge Quiz Review Question: 1 - Score: 0 / 5 SPORTS EQUIPMENT What is this an image of? shuttlecock discus skipping rope ice axe SPORTS EQUIPMENT Drag the correct answer into the box. shinguards ice axe dumbbell snowboard SPORTS EQUIPMENT Drag the correct answer into the box. snowboard tennis ball shuttlecock sledge SPORTS EQUIPMENT Drag the correct answer into the box. dumbbell shuttlecock exercise bike golf club SPORTS EQUIPMENT What is this an image of? golf ball ice axe tennis ball dumbbell Your score: Check See the answer Next Next quiz Review 7 differences between British and American English words for clothing Here are 7 words for clothing that have different meanings in American and British English. June 15, 2023 Read more Create an account and sign in to access this FREE content Register now or log in to access This page in English Italiano American Português 한국어 简体中文 Deutsch Español हिंदी 日本語 English Italiano American Português 한국어 简体中文 Deutsch Español हिंदी 日本語 Browse all official Collins dictionaries About Us Contact Us FAQS Related Links Advertise with us B2B Partnerships Collins COBUILD Collins ELT Dictionary API HarperCollins Publishers Word Banks Consent Management Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Do Not Sell My Personal Information Security © Collins 2023 LANGUAGE English English Dictionary Thesaurus Word Lists Grammar English Easy Learning Grammar Grammar Patterns English Usage Teaching Resources Video Guides Conjugations Sentences Video Learn English Video pronunciations Build your vocabulary Quiz English grammar English collocations English confusables English idioms English images English usage Thematic word lists French English to French French to English Grammar Pronunciation Guide Conjugations Sentences Video Build your vocabulary Quiz French confusables French images German English to German German to English Grammar Conjugations Sentences Video Build your vocabulary Quiz German confusables German images Italian English to Italian Italian to English Grammar Conjugations Sentences Video Build your vocabulary Quiz Italian confusables Italian images Spanish English to Spanish Spanish to English Grammar Pronunciation Guide Conjugations Sentences Video Build your vocabulary Quiz Portuguese English to Portuguese Portuguese to English Grammar Conjugations Video Build your vocabulary Hindi English to Hindi Hindi to English Video Build your vocabulary Chinese English to Simplified Simplified to English English to Traditional Traditional to English Quiz Mandarin Chinese confusables Mandarin Chinese images Traditional Chinese confusables Traditional Chinese images Video Build your vocabulary Korean English to Korean Korean to English Video Build your vocabulary Japanese English to Japanese Japanese to English Video Build your vocabulary TRANSLATOR GAMES Quiz English grammar English collocations English confusables English idioms English images English usage Thematic word lists French grammar French images German grammar German images Italian grammar Italian images Mandarin Chinese characters Traditional Chinese Spanish grammar Scrabble Wordle Helper Collins Conundrum SCHOOLS Home School Primary School Secondary School BLOG RESOURCES Resources Collins Word of the Day Paul Noble Method Word of the Year Collins API Collins English Dictionary: judgmatically Word usage trends