BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBBC CBeebies Food Close menu BBC News Menu Home Cost of Living War in Ukraine Climate UK World Business Politics Culture Tech More Science Health Family & Education In Pictures Newsbeat Reality Check Disability Culture Ghosts: How the spirited British sitcom found a new haunt in the US Published 29 May 2022 Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Image source, Cliff Lipson/CBS Image caption, In the US Ghosts, Rose McIver and Utkarsh Ambudkar play a couple who move into a haunted house By Ian Youngs Entertainment & arts reporter TV comedy Ghosts has become one of the most popular new sitcoms on both sides of the Atlantic, after a US remake of the beloved BBC original became a hit. The makers of both versions discuss how they leave viewers in high spirits. Since it started in 2019, BBC One's Ghosts has been a rare thing in the age of streaming choice and splintered viewing - a sitcom that the whole family can enjoy together. And since the US version of the show launched earlier this year, it has become an even rarer thing - a successful American remake of a British sitcom. The history of cross-Atlantic comedy remakes is littered with short-lived flops, but Ghosts has become the most successful translation since The Office and Veep (based on The Thick Of It). The first season of the CBS adaptation ended last month as the top-rated new series on US TV, according to the network, as well as the number one comedy on streaming service Paramount+. This YouTube post cannot be displayed in your browser. Please enable Javascript or try a different browser. View original content on YouTube The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. YouTube content may contain adverts. Skip youtube video by CBS Allow YouTube content? This article contains content provided by Google YouTube. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Google’s cookie policy , external and privacy policy , external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’ . Accept and continue The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. YouTube content may contain adverts. End of youtube video by CBS Joe Wiseman, one of the lead writers and producers of the US version, says the first time he watched the BBC original, he "loved it right away". "You could just tell immediately that it was a unique show, a unique premise," he says. "And it was just so funny." The British series was created by the team behind Horrible Histories. "Behind the idea was just asking, 'what can we come up with that means we get to dress up and be silly, and in a haunted house?'" Mathew Baynton, one of the team, explained backstage at the recent BBC Comedy Festival in Newcastle. However, the team initially dismissed the concept, not thinking there would be much potential for humour in spirits who can't really touch anything, go anywhere, and don't, since they're already dead, have much to worry about. But then they realised having very different personalities from different historical eras who cannot escape each other, and are stuck together in a sort of cheerful purgatory for eternity, could actually be very funny. Image caption, The British original launched in 2019 The characters in the British original include caveman Robin, trouserless Tory MP Julian, a self-important Army officer known as The Captain, needy Georgian noblewoman Kitty, and affable scout leader Pat. They are joined in their crumbling stately home by a young (alive) couple - one of whom can see their phantom housemates. Ben Willbond, who plays The Captain, says: "It's basically this largely dysfunctional but very close family living together - arguing, resolving their differences, getting on, ultimately staying as entrenched as they ever were, but learning a little bit about themselves every week." Baynton, who also plays hopelessly romantic poet Thomas, describes the show as "a really warm embrace of a family sitcom". Willbond adds: "It's such a such a lovely feeling. When people talk to me about it, that's one of the first things they say, every time, 'oh, I can sit down with my kids'." Where are the new classic sitcoms? Can Call My Agent's British remake recapture the magic? The best and worst of US remakes of UK shows The real secret, Baynton believes, is it shows that "we can all get on, however much we disagree - if we're really stuck with each other and we look each other in the eye, we can get on". He adds: "I feel as though that's probably why it's working both sides of the pond. People are reassured and craving something that says, 'it's all right, we can get along'. "There's such an endless howl of anger and bile that people are directing at each other every day. So I guess it's a tonic to that. I think that's what the idea happened to have, kind of by accident." Image source, EPA Image caption, The US cast of Ghosts will return for a 22-episode second season to follow its 18-part first season Joe Port, who runs the US version with Wiseman, echoes that their series is "a very feelgood show, just like the British one is". "It's got this feelgood sort of warm hug feel, while also being hard funny," he says on Zoom from Los Angeles. Some of the US characters have been clearly borrowed from the British version, like scout leader Pete and the upper-class Hetty. Others are similar but different - a Viking instead of a caveman, and a trouserless Wall Street "finance bro" instead of a Tory MP. "That was also a funny guy to have be pantsless," says Port. A few are unique to the US, like a Native American, who was "the number one character that we had to have in the show", Port says. There is also a 1960s hippy called Flower and 1920s jazz singer Alberta. When it began, the reception from US TV critics was mixed but generally warm, with TV Line calling it "a wonderful surprise" and Variety saying it's "charming enough to merit sticking around", although The Hollywood Reporter said it "could use an infusion of zaniness to live up to its Beetlejuice-y aspirations". Image source, Getty Images Image caption, US Ghosts lead writers and producers Joe Wiseman (left) and Joe Port Port and Wiseman have also worked on the US version of The Office and a remake of The IT Crowd. Port recalls how Greg Daniels, who took The Office from Slough to Scranton, initially followed the British formula before taking it in new directions. "I guess if there was any guidance, it was sort of seeing how Greg had adapted The Office," he says. With Ghosts, "we didn't want to fix what wasn't broken", he continues. "But once that premise was up and running, we departed and were able to chart our own path for the most part." The question with TV remakes is normally, why bother if the original is so good? Image caption, A fourth series of the UK original has been filmed With Ghosts, the reason is clearer than most, because each country has a different history and a different set of historical characters who could be hanging around in the afterlife. There are no other international versions of Ghosts yet, according to BBC Studios, whose LA arm co-produces the US version. But it can't be long before more countries find some happy phantoms in their own old houses. "It just felt like there was a reason to adopt this one," Wiseman says. "It was seen as very portable. And it seems like there should be many different versions of Ghosts all over the world, as far as I'm concerned." The UK Ghosts is available to stream on BBC iPlayer, with a fourth series coming soon. The US Ghosts can be streamed on Paramount+ in the US. Related Topics Comedy Television More on this story Where are the new classic sitcoms? Published 14 May 2022 Call My Agent: 'Brits are poor at saying what we mean' Published 25 April 2022 The best and worst of US remakes of UK shows Published 21 May 2021 Top Stories Conservative MPs split over Johnson Partygate vote Published 2 hours ago Capsized boat had 100 children in hold, BBC told Published 2 hours ago ‘People are waiting for any piece of good news’ Published 4 hours ago Features Inside North Korea: 'We are stuck, waiting to die' What's next for Boris Johnson? Audio What's next for Boris Johnson? Attribution Sounds Chris Mason: Brutal report is devastating for Boris Johnson Boris Johnson: Final curtain on a colourful career? 'My beautiful boy' - families pay tribute at Nottingham vigil. Video 'My beautiful boy' - families pay tribute at Nottingham vigil ‘People are waiting for any piece of good news’ Watch: Tourist fights off feisty kangaroo in Australia. Video Watch: Tourist fights off feisty kangaroo in Australia Messi mania grips crowd at China’s Workers’ Stadium Robber gets trapped under shop shutters. Video Robber gets trapped under shop shutters Elsewhere on the BBC Why are there millions of empty houses in Japan? In Northern Japan, houses have been abandoned at a rate of 13.6 percent Attribution Sounds Overcoming those who didn't believe in her Star of Game of Thrones, Maisie Williams reveals just how hard her start in life was Attribution iPlayer Surviving one of the most dramatic cases of UK coastal erosion The residents of Hemsby don't want to leave, but their houses are on the edge of a cliff Attribution iPlayer An amazing underwater world revealed Hidden cameras give incredible perspectives on ingenious ocean creatures Attribution iPlayer Most Read 1 Conservative MPs split over Johnson Partygate vote 2 ‘People are waiting for any piece of good news’ 3 Capsized boat had 100 children in hold, BBC told 4 Ice cream man's delight as Haaland boards van 5 US man held after fatal attack at German castle 6 Nationwide latest to raise mortgage rates again 7 Don't have hate in your heart, attacks vigil told 8 Sir Michael Caine leads tributes to Glenda Jackson 9 South rainier than north as UK weather trend flips 10 First synthetic human embryo raises ethical issues BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Best of BBC iPlayer Restoring the home of Paul McCartney. Video Restoring the home of Paul McCartney Attribution HIDDEN TREASURES Is it time to buy an electric car? Video Is it time to buy an electric car? Attribution PANORAMA Facing a choice no parent wants to make. Video Facing a choice no parent wants to make Attribution BEST INTERESTS From a sugary avalanche to a minty sweet. Video From a sugary avalanche to a minty sweet Attribution INSIDE THE FACTORY Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Make an editorial complaint Get Personalised Newsletters Why you can trust the BBC © 2023 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.