Search Report a repair Contact us My Move Account Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Sell Property valuation Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Local Sold House Prices Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Looking to move? Get your property valuation Get your conveyancing solicitor Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations How much can I afford? - use our budget planner and find out Something need fixing - Report a repair Landlords Rental valuation Book an accurate lettings valuation Get an instant online valuation Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations Looking to let? Get your property valuation Get your property managed New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Mortgages Mortgage Services Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Book your mortgage appointment About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection Branches Sales Amersham Hazlemere and Great Missenden High Wycombe Princes Risborough Land & New Homes Lettings Amersham High Wycombe Princes Risborough Fine & Country Fine & Country South Buckinghamshire Other departments Sales Progression Property Management JNP Handyman Services Head Office xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? My Move xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Branches xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Report a repair - Fixflo Branches Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Sell Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Local Sold House Prices Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Existing tenants Report a maintenance issue What to do in an emergency Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations Landlords Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Mortgages Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Careers About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection You're in control We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. To learn more about how we use cookies, please see our Cookie Policy . You can manage your preferences now on this banner, or via your browser at anytime. Functional Active Inactive Analytical Active Inactive Non-essential Active Inactive Manage Accept Home Rent Tenant guides First time renting guide First time renting guide Tenant guides First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Damp, mould and condensation Maintenance tips for your rental property What to do if there is an emergency in your rental property Preventing rental fraud First time renting guide Renting your first property can be very daunting as it may be your first time moving out of home or you may need to relocate for work so we are here for you at every step of the way. We have put together a short guide for first time renters covering a few key points to take into account before you move into your first rental property. You can also check out the government's How To Rent: The Checklist For Renting In England. Don't rush into letting, do your homework, know your budget, the area you want and your requirements and ensure the landlord or agent has a good reputation. Consider your needs Know your criteria - the first step is to set up a list of things that you want from the property. This will help you when speaking to an estate agent about your move as well as when you're reviewing property options. This could be as simple as a specific location for your commute or a parking space for your car or could be more detailed such as a dishwasher or include utilities covered in the rent. Know your budget - whatever your reason for renting you will have a budget that you're working to. Make sure to check what costs you may have to pay upfront such as a deposit or rental fees as well as what the costs may be during the tenancy. Do your homework on likely utility costs, council tax and rental insurance you may take out. You can use our budget planner to help you identify some of the ley costs. Budget planner Timescales - how long will you want the property for? Landlords will set different terms for their property rental periods. Some will be happy to do a short term such as 3-6 months whereas others will require a minimum of a year. Sign up new property alerts - rental properties move a lot quicker than properties for sale so make sure you sign up for alerts to find out when new properties come on the market. You should also visit estate agents adn let them know what you're looking for and what your budget is. That way they will be able to tell you about any new properties due on the market. You can regioster for new alerts with The JNP Partnership through My Move. That way you'll always know what we have available. Register with My Move Choosing your agent - getting the right agent is important when choosing a property. You want an agent who has the right property for you and can give you the best help and support in securing the property and working with you to address any issues that may occur during your tenancy. Viewing properties Viewings Make time to view all the properties that you're interested in. In the current market we are finding that some properties are reserved at the first viewing, so make sure you have your finances in place so you can secure the property quickly. When you're at the viewing make sure you take the time to have a good look round. Check the water pressure, find out how the heating works, check the size of the fridge, etc. If you're viewing a property and the previous tenants are still living there, make sure you know what's included and what belongs to them. Know how the property is managed A number of landlords will leave the day to day management to the estate agent so they will deal with any maintenance issues on your behalf. Other landlords will manage the property themselves. It's good to know how your property is managed so you're aware of who to contact if there's a problem. Preparing for the tenancy Getting your finances in place Make sure you're financially prepared to make decisions quickly. Once you decide to rent the property you will need to pay your administration fee to start your application. References We will apply for references in respect of each tenant using a professional referencing company. A credit check, Current/Previous Landlord’s (where applicable) and employer’s references will be sought. We will also check other details relating to your financial history. Deposit When agreeing to rent a property you will need to pay a holding deposit to secure the property and a security deposit to cover damages. The amount for each property will be shown on the property listing as a deposit and holding deposit amount as well as a link to any other Permitted payments. You can find out more about Permitted Payments here . We are required to keep your deposit safe. Tenancy Agreement You will receive the tenancy agreement before the start of the tenancy and we must receive the deposit in our bank account before the tenancy starts. Income Protection & Home Contents Insurance It's worth thinking about protecting your belongings and your income once you start renting. You can discuss income protection & contents insurance with our partner Embrace Financial Services. During tenancy Tenancy Once the agreement has been signed and the standing order set up you may collect the keys on the day your tenancy commences. We will provide you with the Energy Performance Certificate, the Landlords Gas safety certificate (if relevant), contact details for your property and any emergency contractors details. Move in When we have received acceptable references and after consultation with the Landlord, a Tenancy Agreement will be prepared which both Landlord and Tenant are required to sign. Guarantors where applicable will be required to sign the Agreement. The guarantors will also need to sign a Deed of Guarantee Inspections If the property you are renting is managed by The JNP Partnership we will carry out property visits to make sure the property remains in good repair. At the end of the tenancy Tenancy renewal Around two months prior to the end of your fixed term we will contact you to discuss your future plans. The process is similar to the start of the original tenancy and allows further commitment, planning and budgeting for another fixed term. Notice and eviction A tenancy runs until it is ended by either the tenant giving notice, or the landlord serving an eviction notice. As a tenant, the amount of notice you are required to give depends on the type of tenancy you have and your individual tenancy agreement. During the fixed term period of your tenancy, you can usually only end your tenancy early if the tenancy agreement has a break clause. Providing there is no rent owing, and no cleaning or repairs are needed, your security deposit will be returned to you in full. If cleaning or repairs are required, these will be agreed between you and the landlord and the cost deducted from your deposit, with the balance returned to you. Next - Tips for viewing a rental property Useful information for tenants Why rent with us Find out more about renting through JNP Permitted payments Read through our fees and permitted payment How much can you afford? Use our budget calculator to see how much rent you can afford. Useful information for tenants Find out more about renting xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"? Permitted payments Budget planner Book a valuation Contact your local branch My Move account Buy Find Property For Sale Land & New Homes Buying Calculators Rent Find Property To Rent Permitted payments Report a repair Sell Sell your property with us Book a property valuation Get an instant valuation Landlords Landlord services Service options & Fees Guides for landlords Services Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Helpful Links Careers Branches Privacy Notice Legal Information Accessibility Cookie Policy VAT Complaints Procedure Client Money Protection Anti Money Laundering information xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? JNP is a trading name, independently owned and operated under licence from LSLi Limited by AIG (KH) Ltd (company number 14772222), registered in England at 5 Brooklands Place, Brooklands Road, Sale, Cheshire, England, M33 3SD. Also trading as Fine & Country. We may refer you to recommended providers of ancillary services such as Conveyancing, Financial Services, Insurance and Surveying. We may receive a commission payment fee or other benefit (known as a referral fee) for recommending their services. You are not under any obligation to use the services of the recommended provider. The ancillary service provider may be an associated company of JNP.