Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 19 1 19 1 Chapel Street, Belgravia SW1X See map £28,000,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 25/10/2019 PROPERTY TYPE Town House BEDROOMS ×6 BATHROOMS ×5 SIZE 6,773 sq. ft. (629 sq. m.) TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Newly renovated house in Belgravia Freehold 6 bedrooms Benefits from a Gym, Swimming Pool and Cinema Room High Ceilings throughout Lift to every level Large Garden and Balcony Space Large Garden Superbly Located between Belgrave Square and Buckingham Palace Moments away from the soon to be completed Peninsula Hotel Property description A magnificent, exceptionally well presented, six bedroom freehold town house situated on an elegant Georgian terraced row in the heart of Belgravia. This stunning Georgian freehold property boasts a charming exposed yellow brick facade with a perfectly preserved white stucco, "smooth faced" rusticated base storey and an imposing, wide, front door with a traditional decorative fan light above it. A street style lantern is mounted to the base storey, serving to gently illuminate the facade at night, accentuating a charming historical aesthetic. The interior has recently been completely refurbished to an exceptional standard with a striking juxtaposition between the original features and new modern design. The long entrance hallway boasts high ceilings, intricately designed ornate marble floors, tall decorative skirting boards as well as bespoke lanterns with a period aesthetic hanging from the ceiling and mounted to the walls. The entrance hallway provides access to the elegant main staircase (with bespoke dark wood railing), a lift and a guest WC. To the left of the entrance hallway is a spacious dining room boasting high ceilings with decorative ornaments (which sympathetically mimic traditional Georgian ceiling decorations whilst maintaining a distinctly contemporary appeal) rectangular skirting board so tall that they almost reach the ceiling, a large bespoke chandelier and wall mounted lanterns ( both with eye catching contemporary design) as well as bespoke dark wood flooring. The dark wood floors contrast dramatically with the rest of the dining rooms white decor, making the space especially striking. The dining room also contains an beautiful dark marble fireplace and benefits from an abundance of natural light entering the space via two, large sash windows. The back of the ground floor contains a very large, highly modernised kitchen/breakfast room which benefits from bespoke contemporary design/appliances, a sizeable island feature and ornate work tops. The kitchen/breakfast room is flooded with natural light from a glass panel ceiling (occupying about a third of the kitchens ceiling space) which connects to a glass panel wall with a set of impressive floor to ceiling double doors that open into the well proportioned garden which is profuse with beautiful floral greenery. The two principle rooms of the Piano noble first floor have been combined, creating one large, open plan, "double reception room". The double reception room spans the entire width of the front section of first floor and stretches all the way to the back of the first floor, occupying the area which historically would have been used as a dining room, forming a expansive, L shaped space. The double reception rooms boasts high ceilings, grand proportions, two ornate marble fireplaces, bespoke contemporary design and exquisite dark wood flooring, The double reception room also benefits from an incredible degree of natural light exposure, entering the space through three sets of floor to ceiling windows with French doors ( two at the front and one at the back of the property) that open onto two sizeable balconies one at the front and the other at the back of the property. The second floor also contains a spacious study, modernised to a high standard, which boasts high ceiling, bespoke dark wood flooring and a floor to ceiling fitted bookcase with lighting in built lights. The study also benefits from plenty of natural light, which enters the space via a large window and a set of floor to ceiling windows with French doors which open onto the first floor balcony at the back of the property. The entire second floor is dedicated to a remarkably large, opulent master bedroom suite which benefits from bespoke contemporary design, an ornate en-suite bathroom (complete with a separate stand up shower/bath and boasting a stunning chandelier) a substantial dressing room with ample storage space as well as a small out door space accessible via the en suite bathroom. An additional 3 bedrooms are located on the third floor, one benefiting from an en-suite and the other two sharing a large bathroom. The lower ground floor boasts an impressive cinema room, with a exquisite interior design and bespoke, intricate lighting consisting of two rectangular LED strips built into the ceiling with a highly unique rectangular centre piece light feature and a bar. The cinema benefits from plenty of natural light entering the space via two sets of floor to ceiling double doors which lead out onto the spacious lower ground garden. The lower ground floor also contains a further two bedrooms complete with their own en-suite bathrooms, a second kitchen with bespoke modern appliances, a guest WC, two vaults, a large plant room, a sizeable wine cellar and a patio which leads to a separate street level entrance. The basement level is contains a tremendous spa, boasting an impressive 8.97 meter long swimming pool, a sauna, a steam room, a shower room and a bathroom. Also located in the basement is gym which benefits from grand proportions (spanning the entire width of the property) and second plant room. This Charming property sits on Chapel Street - one of London`s most famous streets - and is steeped in history. The house was formerly owned by Lord Heseltine, one of Britain`s most prominent politicians of the late Twentieth Century, for many years and it was on the steps outside the property, that Heseltine announced he would challenge Margaret Thatcher for the leadership of the Conservative Party in 1990. Chapel Street provides quick access to local amenities, as well as being only moments away from the Michelin starred restaurants of Mayfair and the internationally renowned shopping of Knightsbridge. The striking new Peninsula hotel is being built moments away which is set to be one of London`s newest iconic hotels. Notice Please note we have not tested any apparatus, fixtures, fittings, or services. Interested parties must undertake their own investigation into the working order of these items. All measurements are approximate and photographs provided for guidance only. Brochures Brochure 1 Web Details Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC 1 EPC 2 Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Chapel Street, Belgravia SW1X Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Hyde Park Corner Station 0.2 miles Knightsbridge Station 0.4 miles Green Park Station 0.4 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Rokstone, London 5 Dorset Street, London, W1U 6QJ Rokstone is London's most complete Estate Agency offering an integrated sales and acquisition service. Whether you need to sell your property or help to buy your ideal home, Rokstone offers a personalised service. With over 12 years' experience exclusively in the Central London market Rokstone understands its clients' needs and expectations. More properties from this agent Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Rokstone, London 5 Dorset Street, London, W1U 6QJ More properties from this agent Call agent : 020 7580 2030 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 517_ROKS. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Rokstone, London . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 020 7580 2030 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho