Skip to main content Google Maps Help Sign in Google Help Help Center Community Google Maps Privacy Policy Terms of Service Submit feedback Send feedback on... This help content & information General Help Center experience Next Help Center Community Google Maps Discover coordinates or search by latitude & longitude To search for a place, enter the latitude and longitude GPS coordinates on Google Maps. You can also find the coordinates of the places you previously found. Besides longitude and latitude, you can use plus codes to share a place without an address . Enter coordinates to find a place On your computer, open Google Maps . In the search box, enter your coordinates. Here are examples of formats that work: Decimal degrees (DD) : 41.40338, 2.17403 Degrees, minutes, and seconds (DMS) : 41°24'12.2"N 2°10'26.5"E Degrees and decimal minutes (DMM) : 41 24.2028, 2 10.4418 Get the coordinates of a place On your computer, open Google Maps . Right-click the place or area on the map. This will open a pop-up window. You can find your latitude and longitude in decimal format at the top. To copy the coordinates automatically, left click on the latitude and longitude. Format your coordinates To format your coordinates so they work in Google Maps, use decimal degrees in the following format: Correct : 41.40338, 2.17403 Incorrect : 41,40338, 2,17403 Tips : List your latitude coordinates before longitude coordinates. Check that the first number in your latitude coordinate is between -90 and 90. Check that the first number in your longitude coordinate is between -180 and 180. Computer Android iPhone & iPad More Need more help? Try these next steps: Post to the help community Get answers from community members true Help Choose your vehicle icon in the Google Maps app Search locations on Google Maps Search for nearby places & explore the area Discover coordinates or search by latitude & longitude Find, add, or hide your Google Contacts on the map Make a reservation in Google Maps Make OpenTable reservations in Google Maps Look up your events, booking, and personal info Manage your Business Profile on Google Maps ©2023 Google Privacy Policy Terms of Service català‎ dansk‎ Deutsch‎ eesti‎ English (United Kingdom)‎ español‎ español (Latinoamérica)‎ Filipino‎ français‎ Gaeilge‎ hrvatski‎ Indonesia‎ italiano‎ latviešu‎ lietuvių‎ magyar‎ Malti‎ Melayu‎ Nederlands‎ norsk‎ polski‎ português‎ português (Brasil)‎ română‎ slovenčina‎ slovenščina‎ suomi‎ svenska‎ Tiếng Việt‎ Türkçe‎ íslenska‎ čeština‎ Ελληνικά‎ български‎ русский‎ српски‎ українська‎ ‏ עברית ‏ العربية मराठी‎ हिन्दी‎ বাংলা‎ ไทย‎ 中文（简体）‎ 中文（繁體）‎ 日本語‎ 한국어‎ English‎ Enable Dark Mode Send feedback on... This help content & information General Help Center experience Search Clear search Close search Google apps Main menu false Search Help Center true true true true true 76697 false false