Skip to main content Open menu Close menu GamesRadar+ The Games, Movies, TV & Comics You Love Search Search GamesRadar+ Subscribe UK Edition UK US Canada Australia Gaming Magazines Why subscribe? Takes you closer to the games, movies and TV you love Try a single issue or save on a subscription Issues delivered straight to your door or device From £4.99 View Deal News Guides Features Reviews Deals Magazines About Us Retro Gamer Play Total Film Edge SFX Trending Xbox Games Showcase Star Wars Outlaws E3 2023 schedule Future Games Show When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . Home Games Adventure Minecraft How to install Minecraft Forge and use mods By Leon Hurley Contributions from Joel Franey last updated 20 January 2023 Using Minecraft Forge to install and manage mods in your games Comments (Image credit: macio6) Minecraft Forge is essential if you want to get into Minecraft modding in Java Edition, as Forge allows you to install and manage all kinds of mods in one place. Importantly, Minecraft Forge is free and open-source, and simplifies the modding process so after you've got it installed, you should be ready to start messing around with mods in Minecraft . Setting up Minecraft Forge isn't as complicated as it might seem, and you'll need to do it if you want to try some of the best Minecraft mods . Here's our comprehensive tutorial on how to install and run Minecraft Forge for modding. How to install Minecraft Forge (Image: © Microsoft) Before installing Minecraft Forge, make sure you are using Minecraft Java Edition on your PC as mods are not compatible with Bedrock Edition. Minecraft Forge is on a PC / Mac only, and to install it you need to: 1. Choose the right Minecraft Forge download 2. Download Java (if needed) 3. Install Forge in Minecraft Click on any of the steps or scroll down for more information. Otherwise, the first thing you need to do is head to the Minecraft Forge download page where you'll be able to, obviously, download Forge and get started. Let's run through the full steps in more detail. Choose your Minecraft Forge download The main Minecraft Forge download page will have these two options at the top (with the actual numbers changing according to which number update for Minecraft was most recent): (Image credit: Microsoft) It's probably best to pick the 'Recommended' box on the right. It might look older than the 'Latest' option but it will be the most stable thing to use, tested properly and presented that way for a good reason. The Latest version will probably be fine but will be less tested and could cause errors and problems. Once you've clicked on your choice you'll likely then get an ad page with this message at the top: "The content below is an advertisement. After the count-down, click Skip to begin your Forge download" When the timer runs down you'll see a big red 'Skip' button appear next to the 'Create Forge Server' button. Click Skip and your download will start. You might get a message that the file could harm your computer, but assuming you're downloading the official Forge file from the website you can ignore that warning. If you are downloading it from somewhere else... don't. Download Java if you need it If you already have Java installed then your Minecraft Forge download will have a Java icon and install when you double click on it, in which case you can skip ahead. If not, and your Forge download looks like a blank or broken icon, then download Java and install it. It's probably best to restart your machine once you have, just to make sure everything's settled in. Once Java is installed, your Forge download should have an icon and you'll be able to click on it and install it. Choose the Forge installation in Minecraft (Image credit: Epic) Once you've installed Minecraft Forge you'll be able to choose it as an installation. To do that open up the the Minecraft Launcher, choose Installations and you should see the Minecraft Forge option you downloaded and installed. Select it to start playing. You'll be taken to a page with a button that says 'Open Mods Folder'. This will open up the folder where you place any mods you want to play with, and going via this route is probably the quickest and easiest way to find it. Obviously Minecraft Forge alone won't do anything so check the link to our favorite Minecraft mods at the top of the page to find some options you can then download and add to the mods folder. Minecraft cheats | Best Minecraft servers | Minecraft Realms | Best Minecraft seeds | Best Minecraft mods | Best Minecraft shaders | Best Minecraft skins | Best Minecraft texture packs | Play Minecraft for free Sign up to the GamesRadar+ Newsletter Weekly digests, tales from the communities you love, and more Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Leon Hurley Social Links Navigation Senior Guides Co-ordinator I'm GamesRadar's Senior Guides Co-ordinator, which means I run GamesRadar's guides and tips content . I also write reviews, previews and features, largely about horror, action adventure, FPS and open world games. I previously worked on Kotaku, and the Official PlayStation Magazine and website. With contributions from Joel Franey Guides Writer More about games Diablo 4 Nightmare Dungeons are getting two massive buffs for faster XP gains Diablo 4 players are exhausted to learn level 85 is somehow only halfway to 100 Latest We did it folks, Diablo 4 is moving gems to the materials tab See more latest ► See comments Most Popular How Starfield outposts work and what you can build By Leon Hurley 13 June 2023 How to use the GTA Online Career Progress tracker By Iain Wilson 13 June 2023 All Starfield crew members confirmed, skills and more By Leon Hurley 13 June 2023 FIFA 23 TOTS Swaps tracker offers Wayne Rooney as the big prize By Ben Wilson 13 June 2023 FIFA 23 RTTF upgrades tracker with boosts for Firmino, Malen and Alaba By Ben Wilson 13 June 2023 What's new in the GTA Online San Andreas Mercenaries update By Iain Wilson 12 June 2023 Madden 24 overall ratings list predicts the top 50 players By Ben Wilson 10 June 2023 How long is the Lies of P demo? By Leon Hurley 9 June 2023 What Lies of P Combat Style is best out of Cricket, Bastard or Sweeper By Leon Hurley 9 June 2023 Madden 24: Everything we know so far By Ben Wilson 9 June 2023 Is Mortal Kombat 1 on PS4? By Leon Hurley 9 June 2023 Load Comments Recommended E3 2023 schedule: Xbox, PlayStation, Ubisoft, Starfield, and more announcements for Summer Game Fest GAME REVIEWS MOVIE REVIEWS TV REVIEWS 1 Keys From the Golden Vault review: "Both daring and problematic" 2 Star Wars: The Clone Wars Pandemic review - "An easy recommendation" 3 Undaunted: Battle of Britain review: "Throws you constant curveballs" 4 SteelSeries Arctis Nova 4 review: 'excellent in its own right but struggles in its price range' 5 Drop CTRL review: "A golden oldie struggling to keep up" 1 Extraction 2 review: "Underwritten story, incredible action" 2 Stan Lee review: "Hard not to be moved by this fan-friendly documentary" 3 Greatest Days review: "Vibrant musical propelled by a stream of Take That bangers" 4 Flamin' Hot review: "Packs a pleasing punch" 5 Chevalier review: "A lush but solidly conventional operatic drama" 1 Secret Invasion review: "A promising start that breaks from the Marvel mould" 2 Star Trek: Strange New Worlds season 2 struggles to achieve maximum warp 3 Yellowjackets season 2 finale review and recap: "Deliciously nauseating and suspenseful" 4 Yellowjackets season 2 episode 8 review and recap: "On its way to a chilling conclusion" 5 Yellowjackets season 2 episode 7 review and recap: "We're itching to get to the point" GamesRadar+ is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . About Us Contact Future's experts Terms and conditions Privacy policy Cookies policy Advertise with us Review guidelines Write for us Accessibility Statement Careers © Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury, Bath BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885.