Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property House Price Index May 2023 P rice s hit record high as new sellers respond to improving market The average price of property coming to the market jumps by 1.8% (+£6,647) this month to reach a new record of £372,894 in a delayed response to the higher-than-expected level of market activity since the start of the year: This 1.8% monthly increase is the biggest of the year so far, and is significantly higher than the historic average May rise of 1.0% Agreed sales numbers are currently just 3% behind the last more normal pre-pandemic market of 2019 The discount from final asking price to agreed sale price has steadied at an average of 3.1%, in line with normal market levels, reflecting home-mover confidence in the outlook for the market Whilst increased price confidence appears to be more justified in the lower and middle market sectors, there are some signs of over-optimism in the top-of-the-ladder sector, as some discretionary buyers hang back: Buyer demand is 1% lower than in 2019 for top-of-the-ladder properties, compared with 3% above 2019’s level in the second-stepper sector, and 6% above in the first-time-buyer sector Average mortgage rates are remaining steady despite another increase in the Bank of England base rate: An average 5-year fixed, 15% deposit mortgage is now 4.56%, compared to 5.89% last October Average new seller asking prices jump by 1.8% (+£6,647) this month, compared with the historical average May rise of 1.0%. This is a new record high of £372,894 as sellers respond with increased pricing confidence to a market that is defying start-of-the-year expectations. Earlier in the spring season we were seeing some caution on asking prices from new sellers despite positive signs for activity levels, as home-movers continued to navigate the fallout from the mini-Budget. Now, with buyer demand 3% higher than in 2019 and sales agreed just 3% behind 2019’s levels, this positive activity has belatedly filtered through to new sellers’ asking prices. However the current multi-speed, hyper-local market is still price-sensitive, and buyer affordability is still stretched. Whilst increased seller pricing confidence in the first-time-buyer and second-stepper homes sectors has more justification, there are some signs of over-optimism in the top-of-the-ladder sector. “This month’s strong jump in new seller asking prices looks like a belated reaction and a sign of increasing confidence from sellers, as we’d usually see such a big monthly increase earlier in the spring season. One reason for this increased confidence may be that the gloomy start-of-the-year predictions for the market are looking increasingly unlikely. What is much more likely is that the market will continue to transition to a more normal activity level this year following the exceptional activity of the pandemic years. Steadying mortgage rates and a generally more positive outlook for the economy are also contributing to more seller confidence, though there are likely to be more twists and turns to come. The market is still very price-sensitive and it is important that new sellers do not damage their prospects of a sale by overpricing initially and reducing later, with agents reporting that it’s the realistically-priced new instructions that are selling best.” Tim Bannister Rightmove’s Director of Property Science The average discount from the final asking price to the agreed sale price has steadied at an average of 3.1%, in line with pre-pandemic market levels. More predictable price patterns reflect home-mover confidence in the more normal market this year, following the uncertainty at the beginning of the year. The number of buyers enquiring to agents about homes for sale is now 3% higher than at this time in the last more normal market of 2019. This is led by the first-time-buyer and second-stepper sectors, with buyer demand now 6% and 3% above pre-pandemic levels respectively. However, there are signs of some over-optimism in the top-of-the-ladder sector, which has the fastest-rising prices this month despite buyer demand in this sector being 1% lower than at this time before the pandemic. While properties in this largest-homes sector are still selling faster than in 2019, it is now taking an average of 67 days to agree a sale, nearly double the 35-day average at this time last year. This is the biggest increase in the time taken to find a buyer, with second-stepper properties now taking 52 days on average compared to 28 days last year, and first-time-buyer properties now taking 53 days, up from 35 days a year ago. A steadying in average fixed-rate mortgages is also contributing to greater home-mover confidence. The average rate for a five-year fixed, 15% deposit mortgage is now 4.56%, down from 5.89% in October. To add some further context, this compares to 4.52% last week. With mortgage rates starting to remain relatively stable week-to-week despite a further Bank of England increase in the base rate, home-movers can more easily understand and plan for the expected costs of their mortgage. Rightmove’s House Price Index is based on the largest and most up-to-date sample of properties coming to the market for sale, meaning that we are in a unique position to be the first to identify any early changes in the market. We expect our monthly price increases to be reflected in other indices over the coming months “This month’s record price is a strong indication of sellers’ confidence, and we can see from activity levels and the still relatively limited choice of property for sale that this confidence is justified in some segments of the market. More discretionary sellers at the top-end may be prepared to price high and wait for the right buyer, and whilst it is positive that they appear to feel no financial pressure to sell, the data suggests that some sellers in this sector will need to price more competitively if they want to find a buyer in the current market. A more stable mortgage market is good news, and after a period of rapid rate rises followed by some significant falls this year, this period of relative stability will help home-movers to plan ahead.” Tim Bannister Rightmove’s Director of Property Science Agent’s Views “The market is very price sensitive, and it is the most accurately priced homes that are creating the most interest and attracting buyers. Properties that have been on the market for a few months may have gone stale, and their asking price out of line with more realistically priced new instructions, where many sellers are motivated to sell and in tune with the current market. Starting with too high an asking price, thinking you can always reduce the price later can be damaging to the prospects of a sale. We’re now seeing a much more normal market following the pandemic inspired frenzy, with good buyer activity for right-priced property, with many of our new instructions finding a buyer within a week. Movers are beginning to understand the new market dynamics and are not as deterred by changes to interest rates as they perhaps were a few months ago.” Vicki Foreman, Associate Partner at Brown & Co. in Norfolk “We’re seeing a reasonable level of activity this spring, as the market follows its usual pattern of being busy this time of year, though it has felt a little stop-start with the bank holidays quickly following Easter. The market is still stock-starved and good quality homes in popular areas are still finding buyers quickly. The changed market this year does make valuing homes more of a challenge, as similar properties may be valued slightly differently depending on how popular that specific road or that particular type of property is with buyers. Most of the activity we are currently experiencing is with homeowners coming to market for relocation reasons, perhaps trading up their first flat for something bigger or changing location to release some of the capital they have in their current home.” Lars Gooch, Operations Director at Keatons in London “Good homes in key residential areas are still attracting a lot of demand and selling quickly, and there is still an undersupply of homes for sale across all price points. Accurate initial pricing remains key, and we’re seeing more sellers set competitive and realistic price expectations for the current market which also makes any overpriced stock stand out. We’re still seeing a continuation of people relocating from cities and urban areas to coastal areas, where they make get more space and a bigger property for their budget.” Bruce Patterson, Managing Director at Corum in Ayrshire Regional Trends Price & Activity Trends London Trends Affordability Trends The first-time buyer monthly mortgage payment is based on Bank of England data of the averages for 90% LTV two-year fixed mortgages from lenders, and the average asking price of a typical first-time buyer home (two bedrooms or fewer) using the Rightmove House Price Index. The equivalent monthly rent is calculated using the same property types (two bedrooms or fewer). The affordability to buy a first home is based on the Average Weekly Earnings (AWE) dataset from ONS multiplied by 4.5 to get the typical maximum that a person can borrow from a lender. The average asking price of a typical first-time buyer home is taken from the Rightmove House Price Index. Full Report National Report Upcoming Dates Monday 19 th June Monday 17 th July Monday 21 st August Monday 18 th September Monday 16 th October Monday 13 th November Monday 11 th December More articles... Will interest rates rise, and what could this mean for mortgages? Take a look... Go to article See inside the most-viewed homes of the month Take a look... Go to article What are the current UK mortgage rates? Take a look... Go to article View all articles Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Resources Where can I live? Schools Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Mobile apps Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London London stations Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Agents and Developers Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho