Games Featured Pop culture Writing tips Games All games Daily Crossword Word Puzzle Word Finder Featured All featured Word of the Day Synonym of the Day Word of the Year New words Language stories Pop culture All pop culture Slang Emoji Memes Acronyms Gender and sexuality Writing tips All writing tips Grammar Coach TM Writing hub Grammar essentials Commonly confused Account thesaurus looked looked See definition of looked on Dictionary.com verb examine visually verb appear, seem to be verb expect, anticipate verb face synonyms for looked Most relevant stare notice consider read study watch see peer glance view rubberneck gape scan beware goggle mind focus scrutinize ogle mark eye flash tend note gaze behold regard attend inspect spot gawk contemplate observe peep spy glower admire scout survey heed get a load of pore over take a gander take in the sights feast one's eyes Compare Synonyms On this page you'll find 105 synonyms, antonyms, and words related to looked, such as: stare, notice, consider, read, study, and watch. antonyms for looked Most relevant miss look away forget overlook neglect dodge avoid scorn disregard ignore How to use looked in a sentence So even though neither was promoted, each got a close look from pitching coordinator Brad Holman, the front office and other minor league coaches. Nationals protect Steven Fuentes, Yasel Antuna and Joan Adon from Rule 5 draft | Jesse Dougherty | November 20, 2020 | Washington Post Nine bucks gets you a faintly sweet pineapple milk bun that’s named for its look but is free of fruit and sized for two to share. At Moon Rabbit, chef Kevin Tien lures fans to the Wharf | Tom Sietsema | November 20, 2020 | Washington Post Readers also hoping for the promised insight into Glenn’s personality and a look at who he was behind the public image are unlikely to find it in this book. Another look at John Glenn through a heroic lens | Francis French | November 20, 2020 | Washington Post The branding genius of K-pop band BTSLike other boy bands, BTS has the looks, the pipes and the style, but it was the group’s message that changed Murdock’s mind. For fans of BTS, the only thing better than the group is each other | Marian Liu | November 20, 2020 | Washington Post That look lasted for just one season because the NFL instituted a rule restricting teams to just one helmet shell per season. Washington Football Team will wear throwback uniforms for first time since name change | Jake Russell | November 19, 2020 | Washington Post Have you looked around the American Dental Association website for an explanation of how fluoridation actually works? Anti-Fluoriders Are The OG Anti-Vaxxers | Michael Schulson | July 27, 2016 | THE DAILY BEAST “Jeffrey wanted me to tell you that you looked so pretty,” the female voice said into my disbelieving ear. I Tried to Warn You About Sleazy Billionaire Jeffrey Epstein in 2003 | Vicky Ward | January 7, 2015 | THE DAILY BEAST And so he looked at her, smiled, and offered a polite “Is everything okay?” Powerful Congressman Writes About ‘Fleshy Breasts’ | Asawin Suebsaeng | January 7, 2015 | THE DAILY BEAST They became so brown and shriveled that they looked like walking beef jerky with New York accents. Powerful Congressman Writes About ‘Fleshy Breasts’ | Asawin Suebsaeng | January 7, 2015 | THE DAILY BEAST Yet only 24 percent of the 3,892 femicides the group identified in 2012 and 2013 were looked at by authorities. Why Mexicans Are Enraged by Obama’s Big Tuesday Meeting | Ruben Navarrette Jr. | January 6, 2015 | THE DAILY BEAST Davy looked around and saw an old man coming toward them across the lawn. Davy and The Goblin | Charles E. Carryl Liszt looked at it, and to her fright and dismay cried out in a fit of impatience, "No, I won't hear it!" Music-Study in Germany | Amy Fay She looked so sweet when she said it, standing and smiling there in the middle of the floor, the door-way making a frame for her. Music-Study in Germany | Amy Fay Joe looked at her with a smile, his face still solemn and serious for all its youth and the fires of new-lit hope behind his eyes. The Bondboy | George W. (George Washington) Ogden He looked strangely out of place in the dusty combat uniform. Sense of Obligation | Henry Maxwell Dempsey (AKA Harry Harrison) See More Examples Synonym of the Day Jun 15, 2023 Choose the synonym for offhand cavalier malicious indefatigable Antonyms For ⋮ Browse # aa bb cc dd ee ff gg hh ii jj kk ll mm nn oo pp qq rr ss tt uu vv ww xx yy zz About Careers Shop Contact us Cookies, terms, & privacy Do not sell my info Follow us Get the Word of the Day every day! Sign up My account © 2023 Dictionary.com, LLC