Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 33 1 33 1 Palmerston Place, West End, Edinburgh, EH12 See map Offers Over £2,200,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 23/01/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Terraced BEDROOMS ×8 BATHROOMS ×6 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Well located in the heart of Edinburgh's thriving West End Within a few hundred metres of the new Haymarket development Conveniently located for access to the amenities of the city centre and a range of schooling Wonderfully bright and spacious accommodation set over four floors Exceptional period detail yet caters perfectly for modern family living Superb living and reception space over ground and first floors with up to eight generous bedrooms Self-contained two bedroom income producing lower ground floor flat South west facing, landscaped and colourful garden Large tandem garage with electric car charging point and ample space for two cars EPC Rating = D Property description Particularly fine four storey Victorian townhouse with magnificent period detail, self-contained flat, west facing garden and large garage for two cars Description Palmerston Place is a particularly fine Victorian townhouse set over four principal floors, offering bright, spacious and flexible accommodation with magnificent period detail throughout. Facing both east and west, the property enjoys plenty of natural light throughout the day, further enhanced by the spectacular cupola crowning the impressive stairwell. The property benefits from elegant and generous proportions throughout with superb family living spaces over the ground and first floors, complemented by spacious bedrooms on the first, second and lower ground floors. The house caters perfectly for modern family living with a range of high specification contemporary fixtures and fittings, while still retaining much of its original charm which exudes through distinct period features. The original cornicing and plasterwork are of particular note and are breathtakingly impressive, while there are magnificent marble mantelpieces, working shutters, astragal windows and wrought iron balustrades and mahogany banister which adorn the impressive stone stair. The front door opens to a grand vestibule and on to spacious and welcoming reception hall from where the ground floor accommodation is accessed, and the stair both rises to the upper floors and descends to the lower ground floor. The elegant dining room is situated to the front of the property looking out to St Mary's Cathedral, and is linked to the kitchen by a well-equipped Butler's pantry. The kitchen is located to the rear of the house and is beautifully appointed, with a generous island and breakfast bar in the centre of the room. Also on this level are the cloakroom and guest WC, while the large utility room is set on the lower mezzanine level. The stair rises to bedroom four situated on the upper mezzanine level, and continues to the first floor where the drawing room is situated. This is an exceptional room spanning the full width of the house, with a bay window and second window offering a spectacular view of St Mary's Cathedral and its gardens. Bedroom three is also on this level, as well as a bathroom and an additional storage cupboard. The stair continues to a study on the upper mezzanine level, and finishes at second floor level where the generously-sized principal bedroom suite is located. It has stunning views of the Cathedral and benefits from a luxurious en suite bath and shower room off, as well as a walk-in wardrobe. There is an additional wardrobe on this level, as well as bedroom two with a west facing aspect. It has an en-suite with shower as well as a further room off it, which could be a further study, dressing room or additional bedroom if required. At lower ground floor level there is a self-contained, but fully integral, main door flat which has provided a significant income through short-term lets. It can be accessed internally and via its own front door from the large front basement courtyard. There are also three dry-lined under-pavement cellars offering additional storage. The apartment features a superb sitting room with bay window to the front, as well as a further bedroom serviced by a separate shower room, while to the rear there is another large bedroom facing on to the garden which has an en suite bath and shower room. The dining kitchen is situated to the rear and is well appointed with modern units and work surfaces. Here there is a door leading to the garden. The sheltered garden has been beautifully landscaped and faces south-west, capturing the best of the light and warmth throughout the late morning, afternoon and evenings. A stone terrace is situated immediately to the rear of the house with steps rising to the lawn, with a variety of colourful plants and shrubs in the surrounding borders. Situated on Palmerston Place Lane, there is a large tandem garage with electric car charging point and sufficient space to park two cars. Location Palmerston Place is a broad and handsome street dominated by the impressive St Mary's Cathedral. Edinburgh's West End tram station, with access to Edinburgh international airport is situated nearby on Shandwick Place. Haymarket train station connecting Edinburgh to London in under five hours, is also a short walk away. This superb central location enjoys a peaceful setting, yet provides easy access to a wide range of specialist shops, restaurants and wine bars close by in the West End, including Queensferry Street and William Street, as well as Stockbridge, George Street and the City centre. The Dean Tennis and Squash Club is a short walk away while there are wonderful walks close by along the Water of Leith and the open green spaces of Inverleith Park and the Royal Botanic Garden are also within easy reach. The property is very well located for excellent local schooling and a number of superb private schools, including Fettes College, The Edinburgh Academy, St. George’s and Erskine Stewart Melville Schools. Square Footage: 5,572 sq ft Additional Info Listing - The property is Category B listed and lies within the New Town Conservation Area. Fixtures & Fittings - All fitted carpets, light fittings, white goods, wall-mounted TVs and library furniture are included in the sale. Some furniture may be available by separate negotiation. Brochures Web Details Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Rating Graph Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Palmerston Place, West End, Edinburgh, EH12 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Haymarket Station 0.2 miles Edinburgh Waverley Station 1.1 miles Slateford Station 1.8 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Savills, Edinburgh Wemyss House 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise span the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa, and the Middle East. Our scale gives us wide-ranging specialist and local knowledge, and we take pride in providing best-in-class advice as we help individuals, businesses and institutions make better property decisions. Outstanding property We have been advising on Read more More properties from this agent Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Savills, Edinburgh Wemyss House 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH More properties from this agent Call agent : 0131 381 1711 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference EDT220581. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Savills, Edinburgh . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0131 381 1711 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho