Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 24 1 24 1 Bothwellpark Farm Cottage, Bothwellpark Road, Bothwell, Glasgow, G71 See map Offers Over £895,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Reduced on 01/06/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×3 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features An attractive former dairy farm and steading offering truly adaptable accommodation. Set in a secluded location. Beautiful grounds extend to around one acre. Outbuildings including four-car garage with converted upper floor, separate workshop with store room. five to six bedrooms (two en suite). EPC Rating = C Property description Substantial country home with excellent outbuildings in accessible location. Description Bothwellpark Farm Cottage is an attractive former dairy farm and steading offering truly adaptable accommodation with outbuildings which could be utilised for equestrian purposes if desired. The property has been lovingly renovated throughout and in its current configuration offers five or six bedrooms and no fewer than three reception rooms along with a stunning kitchen and breakfast room complete with pantry. The home is constructed of red sandstone under a tiled roof with the main living accommodation extending to 4570 sq ft excluding the outbuildings. The property is approached by a long driveway and accessed by electric wrought iron gates. The beautiful grounds extend to about an acre and comprise two expansive lawns, impressive pond with water feature and plenty of parking for numerous vehicles externally and a four-car garage offering internal storage. Internally Bothwellpark Farm Cottage has been refurbished in a traditional farmhouse style and is presented to an excellent standard with accommodation spread over two levels. The ground floor begins within the original Victorian portion of the house and displays many of the features that you would expect from the period. The main hallway has an oak turned staircase leading to the first floor, and a nicely proportioned home office and guest bedroom with en suite shower room are located off the hallway; both rooms have intricate cornicing and ceiling roses and the office benefits from a fireplace. Upstairs there are three bedrooms, all nicely proportioned with one of the bedrooms benefiting from eaves storage, and a well-appointed family bathroom. Downstairs, continuing to the end of the hallway there is a handy utility room and WC with door leading out into the rear garden. Double archways open into the beautiful kitchen and breakfast area with pantry that has an open plan feel and flows into the substantial sitting room. The kitchen is expertly designed and well equipped with an induction hob including countertop extraction, built in appliances, a number of wall and floor mounted storage options, breakfast bar and plenty of space for dining. Two sets of French doors open onto an expansive raised deck that overlooks the garden. The dining room is located off the kitchen and has views of the garden, fireplace and space to comfortably seat 10+ people at the table. From the kitchen the elegant sitting room with sliding door offers a fantastic space to entertain or relax. Benefits include a built in sound system, log burning stove two sets of French doors out onto the deck and garden and a door leading to the rear garden and another raised deck. Located at the far end of the property is the principal suite with a spacious bedroom, dressing room and en suite bathroom, another set of French doors leading out to the garden and decked terrace. The general layout of this home is extremely versatile. Externally Bothwellpark Farm Cottage is enclosed by mature gardens which are mainly laid to lawn; the house has been designed to take full advantage of this with the main lawn and pond creating a feature and focal point to be viewed from the main deck and reception rooms. On the opposite side of the house is another expanse of lawn ideal for recreational purposes. The outbuildings are superb and include a four-car garage with converted upper floor, separate workshop with store room that could easily be altered to create a stable with excellent storage above. A newly installed leisure facility with steam room, sauna, hot tub and shower is again ideally positioned to take advantage of the garden and offers the perfect place to relax and recharge. Location Bothwellpark Farm Cottage is set within a splendid, secluded location just outside the centre of Bothwell village. The house is extremely well situated for access to the M74, leading to Glasgow (M8) within 15 miles, Edinburgh around 40 miles and south to the English border and the M6. Glasgow Airport, with its regular services to London and a variety of domestic, European and international destinations, is within a half-hour drive under normal driving conditions. Bothwell itself is an historic conservation village with a ruined castle. An affluent commuter community with an excellent reputation, it is generally accepted to be one of the Glasgow area's most sought after residential enclaves. Local amenities include excellent village shops, churches, library, pubs and restaurants. Bothwell has a highly regarded primary school, although many local children make the short journey to the private schools of Hutchesons Grammar or the High School of Glasgow. Hamilton College is only a few minutes’ drive away. For sports enthusiasts Lanarkshire is home to a number of excellent facilities including golf courses, fitness centres and the Scottish Rowing Centre at popular Strathclyde Park. Square Footage: 4,570 sq ft Additional Info Council Tax - Band F Brochures Web Details Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Rating Graph Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: F Bothwellpark Farm Cottage, Bothwellpark Road, Bothwell, Glasgow, G71 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Bellshill Station 1.3 miles Blantyre Station 1.5 miles Uddingston Station 1.6 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Savills, Glasgow 163 West George Street, Glasgow, G2 2JJ Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise span the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa, and the Middle East. Our scale gives us wide-ranging specialist and local knowledge, and we take pride in providing best-in-class advice as we help individuals, businesses and institutions make better property decisions. Outstanding property We have been advising on Read more More properties from this agent Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Savills, Glasgow 163 West George Street, Glasgow, G2 2JJ More properties from this agent Call agent : 0141 673 1232 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference GLS220173. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Savills, Glasgow . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0141 673 1232 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho