Health Conditions Featured Breast Cancer IBD Migraine Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Rheumatoid Arthritis Type 2 Diabetes Sponsored Topics Articles Acid Reflux ADHD Allergies Alzheimer's & Dementia Bipolar Disorder Cancer Crohn's Disease Chronic Pain Cold & Flu COPD Depression Fibromyalgia Heart Disease High Cholesterol HIV Hypertension IPF Osteoarthritis Psoriasis Skin Disorders and Care STDs Discover Wellness Topics Nutrition Fitness Skin Care Sexual Health Women's Health Mental Well-Being Sleep Product Reviews Vitamins & Supplements Sleep Mental Health Nutrition At-Home Testing CBD Men’s Health Original Series Fresh Food Fast Diagnosis Diaries You’re Not Alone Present Tense Video Series Youth in Focus Healthy Harvest No More Silence Future of Health Plan Health Challenges Mindful Eating Sugar Savvy Move Your Body Gut Health Mood Foods Align Your Spine Find Care Primary Care Mental Health OB-GYN Dermatologists Neurologists Cardiologists Orthopedists Lifestyle Quizzes Weight Management Am I Depressed? A Quiz for Teens Are You a Workaholic? How Well Do You Sleep? Tools & Resources Health News Find a Diet Find Healthy Snacks Drugs A-Z Health A-Z Connect Find Your Bezzy Community Breast Cancer Inflammatory Bowel Disease Psoriatic Arthritis Migraine Multiple Sclerosis Psoriasis Follow us on social media Health Conditions Discover Plan Connect Subscribe Parenthood Stages Infertility Health & Well-Being Life Sex & Relationships Products & Gear Why Am I Sighing So Much and What Does It Mean? Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, Ph.D., MSN, R.N., CNE, COI — By Jill Seladi-Schulman, Ph.D. on January 14, 2020 Sighing a lot Is it good or bad? Possible causes When to see a doctor Takeaway Sighing is a type of long, deep breath. It begins with a normal breath, then you take a second breath before you exhale. We often associate sighs with feelings such as relief, sadness, or exhaustion. While sighing can play a role in communication and emotions, it’s also physiologically important for maintaining healthy lung function . But what does it mean if you sigh a lot? Can that be a bad thing? Keep reading to discover more. Sighing a lot When we think of sighing, it’s often in connection with conveying a mood or emotion. For example, sometimes we use the expression “breathing a sigh of relief.” However, many of our sighs are actually involuntary. That means we don’t control when they occur. On average, humans produce about 12 spontaneous sighs in 1 hour . That means you sigh about once every 5 minutes. These sighs are generated in your brainstem by about 200 nerve cells. What does it mean if you’re sighing a lot more frequently? Increases in sighing can be associated with a few things, such as your emotional state, particularly if you’re feeling stressed or anxious , or an underlying respiratory condition. Is sighing good or bad? Overall, sighing is good. It plays an important physiological role for the function of your lungs. But how exactly does it do this? When you’re breathing normally, the small air sacs in your lungs, called alveoli , can sometimes collapse spontaneously. This can negatively affect lung function and reduce the gas exchange that occurs there. Sighs help to prevent these effects. Because it’s such a big breath, a sigh can work to reinflate most of your alveoli. What about sighing more than normal though? Excessive sighing can indicate an underlying problem. This can include things like a respiratory condition or uncontrolled anxiety or depression . However, sighing can also provide relief. A 2009 study found that more sighing occurred in conditions of relief than in stressful scenarios. A 2016 study showed that deep breathing , such as sighing, can reduce tension in people with anxiety sensitivity. Possible causes If you find that you’re sighing a lot, there are several things that may be causing it. Below, we’ll explore some of the potential causes in more detail. Stress Stressors can be found throughout our environment. They can include physical stresses like being in pain or in physical danger, as well as the psychological stresses you may feel before an exam or job interview. When you experience physical or psychological stress , many changes occur in your body. These can include quick heartbeat, sweating, and digestive upset. Another thing that can happen when you’re feeling stressed is quickened or rapid breathing, or hyperventilation . This can make you feel breathless and can be accompanied by an increase in sighing. Anxiety According to research , excessive sighing can also play a role in some anxiety disorders , including panic disorder , post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) , and phobias . But it isn’t clear if excessive sighing contributes to these disorders or is a symptom of them. A small 2008 study investigated if persistent sighing was associated with a physical health condition. Although no association was identified, researchers found that 32.5 percent of participants had previously experienced a traumatic event, while 25 percent had an anxiety disorder or other mental disorder . Depression In addition to feeling stress or anxiety, we can also produce sighs to signal other negative emotions, including sadness or despair. Because of this, people with depression may sigh more often. A small 2011 study used a small recording device to evaluate sighing in 13 participants with rheumatoid arthritis . They found that increased sighing was strongly associated with participants’ levels of depression. Respiratory conditions Increased sighing can also occur along with some respiratory conditions. Examples of such conditions include asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) . In addition to increased sighing, other symptoms — like hyperventilation or feeling like you need to take in more air — can occur. When to see a doctor Increased sighing can be a sign of an underlying condition that needs treatment. Make an appointment with your doctor if you experience excessive sighing with any of the following: shortness of breath that’s concerning or out of proportion with your age or activity level stress that’s difficult to relieve or control symptoms of anxiety, including feeling nervous or tense, having trouble concentrating, and experiencing difficulty controlling your worries symptoms of depression, including persistent feelings of sadness or hopelessness, lowered energy level, and a loss of interest in things you previously enjoyed feelings of anxiety or depression that begin to disrupt your work, school, or personal life thoughts of death or suicide The bottom line Sighing has an important function in your body. It works to reinflate alveoli that have deflated during normal breathing. This helps to maintain lung function. Sighing can also be used to convey a variety of emotions. These can range from positive feelings like relief and contentment to negative feelings like sadness and anxiety. Excessive sighing may be a sign of an underlying health condition. Examples can include increased stress levels, uncontrolled anxiety or depression, or a respiratory condition. If you’ve noticed an increase in sighing that occurs along with shortness of breath or symptoms of anxiety or depression, see your doctor. They can work closely with you to diagnose and treat your condition. Last medically reviewed on January 14, 2020 How we reviewed this article: Sources Healthline has strict sourcing guidelines and relies on peer-reviewed studies, academic research institutions, and medical associations. We avoid using tertiary references. You can learn more about how we ensure our content is accurate and current by reading our editorial policy . Agache I, et al. (2012). Dysfunctional breathing phenotype in adults with asthma – incidence and risk factors. DOI: 10.1186/2045-7022-2-18 Boulding R, et al. (2016). Dysfunctional breathing: A review of the literature and proposal for classification. DOI: 10.1183/16000617.0088-2015 Depression. (2018). nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/depression/index.shtml Exercising to relax. (2018). health.harvard.edu/staying-healthy/exercising-to-relax I sigh a lot – what does that mean? (2018). health.clevelandclinic.org/i-sigh-a-lot-what-does-that-mean/ Li P, et al. (2016). The peptidergic control circuit for sighing. DOI: 10.1038/nature16964 Li P, et al. (2017). Sighing. DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2016.09.006 Mayo Clinic Staff. (2018). Anxiety disorders. mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/anxiety/symptoms-causes/syc-20350961 Ramirez JM. (2014). Chapter 6: The integrative role of the sigh in psychology, physiology, pathology, and neurobiology. Progress in brain research. DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-444-63274-6.00006-0 Robbins ML, et al. (2011). Naturalistically observed sighing and depression in rheumatoid arthritis patients: a preliminary study. DOI: 10.1037a0021558 Sody AN, et al. (2008). Sigh syndrome: Is it a sign of trouble? ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18171560 Vaschillo EG, et al. (2015). The effects of sighing on the cardiovascular system. DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsycho.2015.02.007 Vlemincx E, et al. (2009). Why do you sigh? Sigh rate during induced stress and relief. DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8986.2009.00842.x Vlemincx E, et al. (2016). A sigh of relief or a sigh to relieve: The psychological and physiological relief effect of deep breaths. DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2016.07.004 When you should see a doctor about shortness of breath. (2018). health.clevelandclinic.org/when-you-should-see-a-doctor-about-shortness-of-breath/ Share this article Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, Ph.D., MSN, R.N., CNE, COI — By Jill Seladi-Schulman, Ph.D. on January 14, 2020 Read this next Why Am I Having Trouble Breathing? Medically reviewed by Judith Marcin, M.D. Breathing difficulties can develop gradually or come on suddenly. Many different conditions can cause breathing problems, including stress and anxiety. READ MORE What’s Causing My Nausea and Watery Mouth, and How Can I Treat It? Medically reviewed by Saurabh Sethi, M.D., MPH There are many different causes for watery mouth and nausea. Most times, a watery mouth is caused by nausea and not by a separate condition. Other… READ MORE What Causes Excessive Yawning and How to Treat It Medically reviewed by Meredith Goodwin, MD, FAAFP Although excessive yawning is usually attributed to being sleepy or bored, it may be a symptom of an underlying medical problem. Learn about the… READ MORE Light to Moderate Drinking May Help Relieve Stress, Help Your Heart READ MORE An Easy Guide to Improving Your HRV Score Once your doctor helps you set a baseline, there are several ways to improve your HRV score at home. READ MORE 9 Ways to Stop Sweating Medically reviewed by Elaine K. Luo, M.D. Although perspiring is completely healthy and natural, there may be times when you want to know how to stop sweating. Here's what you can do. READ MORE What Is Stress-Induced Psychosis? Stress-induced psychosis can be a difficult and scary experience for you and your loved ones, but recovery is possible. Here’s what you should know. READ MORE Precautions You Should Take During and After a Nuclear Stress Test While nuclear stress tests are considered safe, there are some precautions that need to be followed both during and after the test. READ MORE Burnout Recovery: 11 Strategies to Help You Reset Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, Ph.D., MSN Your brain and body can only handle overwork and overwhelm for so long. Here are 11 steps you can take to help you get started on the road to burnout… READ MORE Fight, Flight, Freeze: What This Response Means Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, PsyD You may have heard of the fight or flight response, which is an automatic reaction to a perceived threat. We'll discuss what it means. READ MORE About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Privacy Settings Advertising Policy Health Topics Medical Affairs Content Integrity Newsletters © 2023 Healthline Media LLC. All rights reserved. Our website services, content, and products are for informational purposes only. Healthline Media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. See additional information. See additional information . © 2023 Healthline Media LLC. All rights reserved. Our website services, content, and products are for informational purposes only. Healthline Media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. See additional information. See additional information . About Careers Advertise with us OUR BRANDS Healthline Medical News Today Greatist Psych Central Bezzy