Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 18 1 18 1 NEW HOME Old Heaton House See map Guide Price £1,800,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Reduced on 02/06/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Link Detached House BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×3 SIZE 3,455 sq. ft. (321 sq. m.) TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 4 Key features Gentleman's Residence Fully restored to its former glory Dates back to circa 1823 Five Bedrooms Double Garage Terrace to the rear Freehold Gated parking Property description DESCRIPTION Old Heaton House is a restoration project undertaken by Elevate Property Group of a historic double fronted five bedroomed Gentlemen's residence with over 3455 sq.ft (321 sq.m) of accommodation, lovingly and sympathetically restored both externally and internally. The property was in a state of complete ruin, buried in the depths of 19th and 20th century industrial Birmingham. From 2020, the building has been subject to a sensitive two-year restoration project to return the building to its former glory as the jewel in the crown of a new development of apartments, townhouses and workspaces. HISTORY Old Heaton House is a former detached residence of c 1823 on the south-west side of Camden Street, situated in the heart of Birmingham's historic jewellery quarter (JQ). it stands as one of only two remaining Georgian villas in the JQ and is a rather fine example of a gentrified suburban residence of the early 19th century, set within its own miniature landscaped park. The house was originally built for William Cotterill, a leading birmingham merchant of high status. the house was then occupied by Thomas Cotterill, William's brother, who was styled 'esquire' having joined the ranks of the gentry. after Thomas' death in 1860, the house was bought by joseph wedgwood who rented it out to Richard Corbett Brinton in the late 1860s, the last private resident. In 1870 Heaton House was rented by Harris and Lazarus, with records listing the property as "house, stables, lofts and premises". by 1876 the property had been sub-divided; one portion was being leased by Archibald Nicholson, travelling draper, the rest briefly used by the London, birmingham and Havana cigar co. By 1889, Richard Cruikshank acquired the house and the grounds to the northwest were partly built over to form courts of workers' houses, while a large villa to its south-east (Camden villa now demolished) is shown with an industrial works to the rear. After 1964 when Cruikshank ceased trading, the property was subdivided into commercial and industrial units, being occupied right up until 2005 when it became vacant. ACCOMMODATION Reception hall with stone staircase. Two grand reception rooms. Superb kitchen with island and adjoining laundry room. Principle bedroom with dressing room and ensuite bath/shower room Guest Bedroom with en-suite Three further double bedrooms Superb bathroom with free standing bath Private gated entrance and parking Large garage to side Terrace to rear LOCATION The property is located in the heart of Birmingham's Jewellery Quarter, minutes from St Paul's Square and close to the canal walkways. The Jewellery Quarter is a designated conservation area and proposed World Heritage Site and is already a prestigious and highly desired part of Birmingham. It is experiencing further development as some of the old factories are converted into apartments, restaurants and shops. It is only a short distance to all that Birmingham City Centre has to offer The City Centre offers some of the best shopping in the country. The famous Bullring Shopping Centre is only around three quarters of a mile away, and contains over 140 shops including one of the only Selfridges department stores outside of London and the exclusive Mailbox development, which is host to a range of designer outlets including Armani and Harvey Nichols. The recently opened £150m Grand Central Shopping Centre sits directly above the new £600 million redevelopment of the now world class New Street station, in addition to over 60 premium retailers and quality restaurants and cafes. The redevelopment enforces Birmingham's retail landscape bringing a mix of unrivalled premium fashion and quality high street brands to the heart of the city. There are good links to the national motorway network, with excellent access to Birmingham International Airport and The National Exhibition Centre. The A38 Aston Expressway is only around half a mile away, and leads directly onto Junction 6 of the M6 which is itself only some 3.5 miles distant. Public transport by road and rail is also most convenient. Major bus routes into and out of the City Centre can be picked up nearby. The Jewellery Quarter Train is minutes away away, Birmingham Snow Hill station half a mile, and the superb more recently developed Birmingham New Street Station is only approximately 1 mile away. PROPERTY INFORMATION Local Authority - Birmingham City Council Council Tax Band - TBC Tenure - Freehold EPC Rating - TBC Service charge - £70 per annum Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC 1 Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent Old Heaton House Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Jewellery Quarter Tram Stop 0.4 miles St. Paul's Tram Stop 0.6 miles Birmingham Snow Hill Tram Stop 0.7 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Maguire Jackson, Birmingham 33 George Street Birmingham, B3 1QG Leading Estate Agents in Birmingham Maguire Jackson are one of the leading Birmingham estate agents. We have three City Centre offices we specialise in arranging residential property sales and lettings in prime locations in the city in addition to commercial sales, lettings and acquisitions in the city fringe and Jewellery Quarter area. Client Experience As leading letting agents in Birmingham, we keep our finger on the pulse of potential and new development in all m Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Maguire Jackson, Birmingham 33 George Street Birmingham, B3 1QG More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 387 6401 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 103430006798. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Maguire Jackson, Birmingham . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 387 6401 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho