Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 16 1 16 1 Block 11 The Mint, Mint Drive, Jewellery Quarter, B18 See map £1,800,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 12/06/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Block of Apartments SIZE 6,681 sq. ft. (621 sq. m.) TENURE Leasehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 3 Key features Block of 9 apartments 3 x 1 bed & 6 x 2 bed 10 parking spaces No SDLT to pay! 6,681 total sq ft for the apartments not including communal area Rental income of £112,860 per annum 999 year lease from 2013 Low service charge £269 per sq ft On site security Property description A rare opportunity to purchase Block 11 Mint Drive which is a block of 9 apartments and 10 parking spaces. The block consists of 3 x 1 beds & 6 x 2 beds and is being sold as a furnished, tenanted investment achieving £9,405 pcm (£112,860 pa). The limited company that owns the property can be purchased meaning there would be no SDLT to pay! The apartments are arranged over 3 floors with the ground floor commercial unit already been sold to an owner occupier. The size is 6,681 total sq ft for the apartments not including the communal area. Price per square foot - £269 per sq ft. Mint Drive is a major residential development in Birmingham's vibrant Jewellery Quarter, located at the former coin factory at the Birmingham Mint site. The Jewellery Quarter is a designated conservation area and proposed World Heritage Site and is already a prestigious and highly desired part of Birmingham. It is experiencing further development as some of the old factories are converted into apartments, restaurants and shops. It is only a short distance to all that Birmingham City Centre has to offer. TENANCY SCHEDULE: Apartment 181 - 2 bed - 831 sq ft - £1,250pcm Apartment 182 - 1 bed - 534 sq ft - £900pcm Apartment 183 - 2 bed - 862 sq ft - £1,200pcm Apartment 184 - 2 bed - 831 sq ft - £975pcm Apartment 185 - 1 bed - 534 sq ft - £925pcm Apartment 186 - 2 bed - 862 sq ft - £1,100pcm Apartment 187 - 2 bed - 831 sq ft - £1,100pcm Apartment 188 - 1 bed - 534 sq ft - £800pcm Apartment 189 - 2 bed - 862 sq ft - £1,155pcm LEASEHOLD INFORMATION: Service Charge - £6,887 pa for the whole block Ground Rent - Zero (Peppercorn) Lease Length - 999 years from 22nd July 2013 Lease, ground rent and service charge details have been provided by the seller and their accuracy cannot be guaranteed. Should you proceed with the purchase of this property, these details must be verified by your Solicitor. BUYERS FEE Buyer's Fee of 1% + VAT (1.2% incl VAT) of the purchase price. T&Cs apply. This property is being offered under Martin & Co's "Secure It Now Exclusivity Package". This is an innovative secure and straightforward way to purchase this property. Secure It Now Exclusivity Package - How does it work? Our sellers are motivated and willing to price their properties competitively in order to ensure a fast and secure sale. You can now secure the purchase with a buyer's "Secure It Now Exclusivity fee" of 1% + VAT (1.2% incl VAT) which includes: * A legally binding contract granting the buyer exclusive rights to purchase the property within a given timeframe (usually 56 days / 8 weeks) * Paying the Exclusivity Fee ensures that the seller takes their property off the market as soon as the sale is agreed and reserves it exclusively for you. * This prevents the risk of gazumping and helps you avoid losing money and wasting time which most buyers like you may face with the traditional estate agent's approach. Step 1 - Register your interest Step 2 - Sort out your finances Step 3 - Arrange a viewing Step 4 - Make an offer Step 5 - Secure your purchase using our buy and Secure It Now Exclusivity package Step 6 - Exchange and completion Read more Tenure: Leasehold You buy the right to live in a property for a fixed number of years, but the freeholder owns the land the property's built on. Read more about tenure type in our glossary page. For details of the leasehold, including the length of lease, annual service charge and ground rent, please contact the agent Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent Block 11 The Mint, Mint Drive, Jewellery Quarter, B18 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Jewellery Quarter Tram Stop 0.2 miles St. Paul's Tram Stop 0.5 miles Birmingham Snow Hill Tram Stop 0.7 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Martin & Co, Birmingham City 28 Carver Street Birmingham B1 3AS The No.1 Agent in Central Birmingham Martin & Co have been ranked by Rightmove as the No.1 Sales & Letting Agent in central Birmingham every year since 2019 based on the number of properties let and sold. On a national level we have been recognised as the 'Best Large Chain' for six years in a row where we have been awarded Gold, Silver & Bronze at the ESTAS (Estate Agent & Letting Agent Awards). In 2019 we were awarded as the best agent in Birmingham at The British Property Aw Read more More properties from this agent Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Martin & Co, Birmingham City 28 Carver Street Birmingham B1 3AS More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 387 6612 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 100714015630. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Martin & Co, Birmingham City . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 387 6612 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho