Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. Find out more Manage cookies Allow all cookies Manage Cookies Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. For more information about how we and our partners use cookies on our site, see our Cookie Policy Strictly necessary These cookies are necessary for the Savills website to function. Examples of this include: setting your privacy preferences, logging in to your Savills account, or filling in forms. Though these cookies cannot be switched off, you can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but please be aware that this will stop some parts of the Savills website from functioning as intended. Find out more about strictly necessary cookies here . Always allowed Functional cookies These cookies are used to enhance the performance of the Savills website, as without them certain functions of the website may not be available. While they are not vital for the website to run, they allow us to remember important information and your preferences such as previous location searches. Find out more about functional cookies here . Allow Targeting & tracking These cookies record your activity on the Savills website and our partners may use that information to show you adverts that they think you will be most interested in when you visit other websites. We may also use information recorded by these cookies to see how well these adverts are performing. Find out more about targeting and tracking cookies here . Allow Save and close Allow all cookies Location and Language Selection Close United Kingdom Location Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe United Kingdom Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe Language English English English Book a valuation Search Close Site Search: Search My Account Menu Menu > Find a property > Market your property > Find a service > Why Savills > Insight & Opinion > Contact us Close Find a property Find a property Whether buying a townhouse or selling a country cottage, leasing corporate office space or renting farmland, our experts make it their business to understand your needs and help you find the right property. Search for a property Residential Search for a residential property Buy a property in London Rent a property in London New homes for sale Properties in Europe Properties in the Caribbean Properties in the US Properties in Asia Pacific Properties in The Alps Farms & Estates Search for rural property Farms for sale Estates for sale Equestrian property for sale Commercial Search for a commercial property Offices to lease in the UK Development land for sale in the UK Retail properties Industrial properties to lease Leisure properties for sale Hotels for sale Flexible office space Investment properties for sale Residential investment Student housing investment Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert What's your property worth? Get expert advice for residential, commercial or rural property, grounded in our experience and knowledge of local, regional and international markets. Arrange a market appraisal Property auctions As one of the UK’s leading auction houses, we offer a large selection of residential and commercial property for sale by auction. More Information Where are residential property sales holding up the strongest? Residential Sales 31 May 2023 We forecast that limited mortgage availability and high interest rates would see home buying activity levels fall in 2023. Read this article Market your property Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an agent Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Market your property Whether you're planning to sell, rent or are undecided, we have an expert who can help. More Information Selling a Residential Property Letting a Residential Property Auctioning a Property Selling a Mews Property Selling New-Build Property Selling International Property Selling a Farm Selling a Fishing Beat Selling a Forest or Woodland Selling a Quarry or Waste Management Facility Selling a Shoot Selling an Estate Selling Country Property Selling Equestrian Property Selling Waterfront Property Interior, Furnishing and Refurbishment Services Private Office Selling Commercial Property Selling Healthcare Property Selling Leisure or Trade-Related Property Real Estate Insights Podcast: Impacts 2023: what is the purpose of property? Research 7 June 2023 Our latest podcast discusses how financial, environmental and social purposes intersect, and how they can be measured, as well as unveiling some of the key findings to emerge from this year’s Impacts publication. Read this article Find a service Find a service Savills offers a wide range of specialist services from financial and investment advice to valuation, planning and property management. More Information Asset Management Auctions Buying or Selling Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Private Office Property Management Research Savills Earth (ESG Consulting) Valuation Browse by sector Our services cover a broad range of property sectors. More Information Affordable Housing Auctions Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food & Farming Forestry Healthcare High St/In Town Retail Hotels Industrial & Logistics Infrastructure Leisure Marine Minerals & Commodities Mixed Use Office & Business Space Operational Capital Markets Out of Town Retail Public Sector Pubs, Bars & Restaurants Residential Residential Investment & Development Residential Development Sales Retail Rural Science & Technology Senior Living Serviced Offices Shopping Centres Trade-Related Sports Venues Student Accommodation Telecoms Utilities Visitor Attractions Vineyards Waste Management Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Find your nearest office With over 40,000 people working across more than 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Why Savills Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise spans the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East. More Information How we work Our integrity, honesty and professionalism is what gives our clients, colleagues, investors and business partners the confidence to work with us. More Information Innovation and technology Savills is at the forefront of exploring and developing new capabilities, bringing together people and technology to push boundaries and take real estate to a new level. More Information Awards Over the years we have been recognised as ‘best in class’ in a diverse range of disciplines. More Information Sustainability & ESG Savills UK sustainability strategy aims to achieve a positive impact on the environment and society, whilst maintaining robust governance measures. More Information Investor relations Savills Plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange within the FTSE250 index. Our annual reports and investor updates can be found online. Visit our Investor Relations site Diversity & Inclusion Savills is committed to eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity amongst our workforce. More information Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion is our hub for residential, commercial and rural articles and research from experts offering industry-leading advice and analysis. Research In-depth research and analysis into property market trends, forecasts from our specialist research teams, and market-leading commentary to help you make the right property decisions. Browse our market research Subscribe to Savills Research Residential reports Residential forecasts Office reports Retail reports Rural reports Residential property prices and trends ESG Research Industrial reports Residential development & investment Savills Indices Research services Webinars The Savills Blog The latest UK and international property market news and opinions, plus helpful guides and top tips from our renowned industry experts. Read the Savills Blog Savills News Up-to-the-minute news from our press teams providing the latest developments within Savills, and across the property industry. Read our press releases Savills Podcasts Keep yourself informed on the ‘real’ behind the real estate headlines, our podcast brings you engaging and insightful discussion with experts across our global business on the issues that matter most in property. Listen to the podcasts Portfolio by Savills Portfolio by Savills seamlessly blends the latest trends, inspirational lifestyle content, and the world’s finest properties with the expert insight and analysis you would expect from Savills. Portfolio has property at its heart, and we’d like you to be part of it. Explore Portfolio by Savills Contact us Find an office With over 40,000 people working across 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Our offices by region London East of England East Midlands North East North West South East South West West Midlands Yorkshire & The Humber Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Channel Islands Find a person Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Careers with Savills At Savills, our most valuable resource is our people. We are known for our positive, entrepreneurial culture, and for attracting some of the most innovative, dedicated and knowledgeable people in the business. More Information Current Vacancies General enquiries We're here to provide you with more information, answer any questions you may have, or connect you with the right people to help with your needs. Use our general enquiry form to get in touch today. Speak to the team 6 of the best...Former rectories Residential Sales 9 June 2023 From the recently renovated to the classically stylish, featured here are a few of our favourite examples currently on the market. Read this article > Home Valuation Details Contacts & Related Articles Contact the team Our team of 400+ RICS registered experts provide commercial, residential and rural property valuations to banks and building societies, property companies, developers, investors and fund managers. Working throughout the UK and Europe, our experts undertake thousands of valuations each year either on a one-off or repeat basis. In addition to mainstream sectors, our services can be applied across a number of specialisms too, including leisure, healthcare and hotels. Undertaking thousands of valuations each year across commercial, residential and rural sectors We believe that our agency teams in these sectors are among the best in the market so we work closely with them to ensure our valuations are current and market-facing. This is combined with consistent updates from our research teams as well as complementary advice from colleagues in investment, planning and development, to offer unparalleled valuation advice. Experts in Valuation Nick Harris Head of UK and Cross Border Valuations and Joint Head of Strategic Advisory EME UK Valuations Head Office London +44 (0) 20 7409 8185 Contact Now Clive Beer Head of Professional Services Rural Head Office London +44 (0) 20 7877 4724 Contact Now Patrick Eve Head of Regional Development Oxford Botley +44 (0) 1865 269 071 Contact Now Craig Timney Head of UK Valuation Operations & Head of Edinburgh Office Valuation Edinburgh +44 (0) 131 247 3820 Contact Now Related Articles Cross Sector New research shows Reading is well positioned for growth Residential Sales Market overview Residential Sales The UK’s top 50 small towns and cities Services Valuation Affordable Housing Valuation Our experienced and knowledgeable team undertakes valuations of social housing properties throughout the UK for a variety of purposes and clients. Read more Valuation Charities Act Services Our team is committed to working with charities and trustees to accurately value property that comes under Section 117-121 of the Charities Act 2011. Read more Valuation Commercial Valuation Our team provides valuation services with a primary focus on the main commercial sectors, covering offices, retail and industrial, for a variety of purposes and clients. Read more Valuation Compulsory Purchase & Compensation We represent property owners and acquiring authorities, providing invaluable advice regarding compensation and site assembly. Read more Valuation Corporate Valuations Our team provide tailored valuation services to suit our corporate clients needs. Read more Valuation Education Valuation We provide tailored valuations across the education landscape, from nurseries and schools to universities, in both public and private sectors. Read more Valuation Energy & Utilities Valuation With a focus entirely on energy installations in the UK, our team provides timely and professional valuation and due diligence advice to clients such as banks, developers, private individuals and operators of energy projects. Read more Valuation Estate & Farm Valuation Our team focuses on the valuation of property assets that make up an estate or farm. These valuations can be for the purpose of loan security, taxation, internal transfers or for dispute resolution, and so need to be accurate, informed and respected. Read more Valuation Cross-border Valuation Our team provides expert valuation and consultancy advice on property in all commercial and residential sectors across continental Europe and Ireland. Read more Valuation Expert Witness & Dispute Resolution We provide independent professional valuation advice to solicitors and other clients in relation to property disputes, and can also act as professional mediators and arbitrators when required. We act for both claimants and defendants and are also frequently instructed as Single Joint Experts. Read more Valuation Forestry Valuation Forests and woodlands are diverse and the valuation of a forest is equally complicated. Our professionals are experts in the field and can provide valuations for individual properties or large portfolios across the UK, always bearing in mind the intricate variables of the industry or local markets. Read more Valuation Healthcare Valuation Our team offers specialist valuations services across the whole healthcare property sector, including primary and long-term care, including specialist and retirement living. Read more Valuation Hotel Valuation Our team focuses on hotels and similar properties which are acquired, disposed and valued by reference to their trading potential. Our focus is extensive, reaching from the UK to Western Europe right out to the Middle East and Africa. Read more Valuation Industrial Valuation Our industrial and warehouse valuation expertise covers all of the UK and Europe, with a particular focus on property inspections, due diligence and market enquiries. Read more Valuation Infrastructure Valuation We offer a specialist valuation service with a particular focus on airports and airfields. It can be suited to a variety of purposes and clients and be applied to assets across the UK and Europe. Read more Valuation Land Valuation Our team at Savills can provide valuations of land for a range of developments from single units to substantial mixed-use schemes. Read more Valuation Lease Extensions & Enfranchisement Acting on behalf of both freeholders and leaseholders, we provide specialist advice on the valuation and negotiation of residential lease extensions and freehold purchases. Read more Valuation Leisure Valuation We undertake valuations for all types of leisure properties, including hotels and licensed premises, for a broad array of clients and purposes. Read more Valuation Licensed Leisure Valuation We specialise in valuations for licensed properties including pubs, restaurants, nightclubs and private members clubs. Read more Valuation Matrimonial Valuation During matrimonial negotiations and potential litigation we value all types of property to assist both lawyers and clients. Read more Valuation Mineral Valuation Our team specialises in the valuation of interests in mineral-bearing land throughout the UK and Ireland. This is a complex, highly regulated field where extensive knowledge is required of the whole process, from planning, extracting and processing through to site restoration. Read more Valuation Mortgage Lending Values (MLV) Our experienced and knowledgeable team undertakes valuations of social housing properties throughout the UK for a variety of purposes and clients. Read more Valuation Office Valuation Our experts specialise is in the valuation of all types and sizes of office buildings across the UK and Europe. Read more Valuation Portfolio & Financial Statement Valuation Operating worldwide, our team provides accurate and transparent valuations of property portfolios for companies, institutions and private individuals. Read more Valuation Private Rented Sector Valuation We provide investment valuation advice on all forms of multifamily property including the private rented sector (PRS) and build to rent (BTR) throughout the UK, with members of the team based in every major city. Read more Valuation Recoveries & Receivership Our recoveries and receivership experts work directly with lenders who anticipate or have defaulted loans. During such sensitive situations, our experienced and qualified specialists can take control of the property, take LPA receivership appointments and ultimately manage and execute a sale. Read more Valuation Residential Development Valuation We provide development valuation advice on all types of residential and mixed-use properties, ranging from single units, low-rise and high-rise blocks of flats and large housing estates. This can be applied across the UK, with members of the team based in every major city. Read more Valuation Residential Investment Valuation Whether working for a lender, investor, trust or stock exchange listing, we provide bespoke investment valuations across the UK. Read more Valuation Residential Valuation Our dedicated residential valuation team of over 50 registered valuers, with local specialism covering all major centres across the UK. Read more Valuation Retail Valuation Across all of the UK and Europe we undertake valuations for all types of retail properties, including shopping centres, high street retail, supermarkets and retail parks. Read more Valuation Section 18 Section 18 is a reference to the Landlord and Tenant Act of 1927. It involves a specialist form of valuation relevant in the assessment of damages that result from a failure to meet contractual obligations. Read more Valuation Sporting Valuation Our team are experts in valuing sporting interests and rights as well as property assets that are used for sporting purposes. Read more Valuation Stock Exchange Valuation Our team provides valuations for stock exchanges around the world, which are included in prospectuses and circulars. Read more Valuation Student Accommodation Valuation Our team are the go-to specialists in valuation and desktop appraisals of purpose-built student accommodation (PBSA) throughout the UK. Read more Valuation Tax, Trusts & Accounts We advise a broad range of clients on valuations for tax-driven purposes within prime London residential locations as well as throughout the UK, also covering farms and rural estates. Read more Valuation Trade-Related Valuation Our trade-related team provides valuations for properties that fall outside of the leisure sector, which derive value from their ability to trade profitably. Read more Valuation Waste Management Valuation Our team’s market, technical and business knowledge allow us to fully understand the drivers of waste sector value and apply this to the valuation of a range of waste management related properties. Read more Subscribe to receive exclusive news and listings free Send Success! You are now subscribed to the Savills mailing list. Sorry, something went wrong. Residential Property For sale Property for sale Property for sale Scotland Property for sale England Property for sale Wales Property for sale in London Help to Buy in London Help to Buy in UK New developments for sale in England New developments for sale in London New developments for sale in Scotland For rent Property to rent in UK Property to rent Scotland Property to rent England Property to rent Wales Property to rent in London New developments to rent in England New developments to rent in London New developments to rent in Scotland Commercial Property For sale Commercial property for sale Development property for sale Industrial properties for sale Leisure properties for sale Offices for sale Hotels for sale Land for sale Industrial property for sale England Hotels for sale in England Offices for sale in England Flexible office space For rent Office property to let Industrial property to let Pubs to let Rural Property Rural property for sale Farms for sale Equestrian property for sale Country estates for sale International Property for sale in Europe Property for sale in France Property for sale in the US Property for sale in Italy Property for sale in Australia Offices All UK offices UK offices by county London Offices Find an office worldwide Services & Sectors Services Asset Management Buying or Selling Property Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Property Management Valuation Sectors Affordable Housing Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food and Farming Healthcare Hotels Industrial And logistics Infrastructure and Transport Leisure Minerals and Commodities Office & Business Space Public Sector Residential Retail Rural Senior Living Serviced Offices Student Accommodation Telecoms Trade-Related & Specialist Sectors Utilities Waste Management More Information Sitemap RSS Feeds Accessibility Feedback TDS Explained Provision of Services Slavery & Human Trafficking Terms & Conditions Privacy & Cookies Client Money Protection Scotland Letting Agent Code of Practice Help to Buy Calculator Residential Stamp Duty Calculator Commercial Stamp Duty Calculator Rental Yield Calculator Land & Buildings Transaction Tax (LBTT) Calculator ESG at Savills Fees & Charges Residential Tenant Fees & Charges Residential Landlord Fees & Charges Talk to Us Find a Savills Office Find a Savills Employee Book a Property Valuation Careers with Savills Ask a Question Investor Relations All content © copyright Savills. All rights reserved. Savills plc, incorporated and registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD. Registered number: 2122174. Savills plc is a holding company, some of whose subsidiaries are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and some of whose subsidiaries are regulated by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). Find us on social Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Facebook YouTube