Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 41 1 41 1 Cofton Church Lane, Cofton Hackett, Birmingham, B45 See map Guide Price £3,200,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 11/05/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×8 BATHROOMS ×8 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features 6 - 8 bedrooms 7 - 8 reception rooms 7 - 8 bathrooms Superb 2 bedroom cottage with integral garage Far-reaching countryside views A Victorian home dating back to 1882 A superb stone balustrade sun terrace Pretty edge of village location Detached Private Parking Property description The Old Vicarage enjoys far-reaching south-easterly views of beautiful countryside to the rear. Mainly laid to lawn with seating areas, the garden enjoys mature oaks, beech, and several fruit trees with tranquil paddocks. The superb stone balustrade sun terrace next to the house offers a wonderful area for alfresco dining. This 1882 red brick home has handsome high-pitch gable ends, and decorative brickwork typical of the Victorian period. The current owners purchased the property in poor condition and have extended and refurbished it to a high standard. The front door sits in an attractive stucco porch with pilasters and a character fan-light window. The inner vestibule opens to the hallway leading to bar/lobby, snug, formal lounge, WC, and a staircase. The formal lounge has glorious garden views. Two antique working fireplaces provide delightful focal points. Snug is a spacious room with a dual aspect. Windows overlook mature shrubs and trees, perfect for relaxed evenings. Wet bar/lobby has a beautiful marble fireplace, and pillars and is fitted with granite top, oak/mirror units and sink. Family/cinema room is well-equipped with a Holtkamp TV unit and surround speakers. A statuary marble fireplace is a splendid focal point. The magnificent kitchen/breakfast room has bespoke German floor-to-ceiling wall units, and a comprehensive range of integrated Miele appliances including fridge, freezer, steam oven, combi oven/microwave, convection oven, American-style double oven, plate warmer, coffee machine, washing machine and dishwasher. The large Star Galaxy granite island has five-ring Miele induction hob, five-ring gas hob, ceiling-mounted extractor, two pop-up electric points, drawers, moulded Corian top with sink, and a breakfast table for six. Another Corian worktop has two Mixa sinks and waste disposal. The sublime sun lounge/formal dining room has statuary marble fireplace, marble pillars, and dropped feature ceiling. The floor-to-ceiling French doors and windows provide extensive garden views. A second kitchen is fully fitted with Asoluto Nero granite tops, several appliances and marble floor as is the guest WC. The rear hall leads to a large study, and oak library with skylights and French doors. The en suite shower room is fitted with Porcelanosa tiles, vanity unit and multi-jet shower. This space is perfect for use as an annexe/business/home office/study suite. Stairs lead to the landing with original, ornate leaded glass window. The luxurious principal bedroom suite also has a private staircase from the ground floor. The bedroom has French doors opening to a fabulous fibreglass balcony with stunning views. The impeccably fitted en suite bathroom has double-wash basins in black quartz with cupboards below. An air tub, and a separate walk-in multi-jet shower provide everything expected from a luxurious bathroom. The walk-in dressing room is large and fitted with floor-to-ceiling mirrored wardrobes, beige pink granite-topped vanity tables by a window for natural light, and two islands. Large double bedrooms 2, 3 and 4 have fitted mirror wardrobes, desks, side tables and modern fitted en suite shower rooms. Family bathroom 1 has granite top, wall to wall mirror, cupboards, bath and shower. Large double bedrooms 5 and 6 have fitted mirror sliding wardrobes, desk and dressing tables. Family bathroom 2 with a shower over bath is impeccably presented with granite top, mirror and base units. Barn Cottage This superb cottage with integral garage is exquisitely renovated. Private access, gates and parking provide much rental potential and it is currently tenanted. The front door opens to the kitchen diner with fitted units, blue pearl granite work surfaces, splash backs and integrated appliances. There is a characterful ground floor double bedroom/office with oak beams to the ceiling. Stairs rise to the sitting room and double bedroom, the modern mirror wardrobes in the hallway, and the modern family bathroom. Barnt Green Railway Station 0.9 miles, Barnt Green 1.2 miles, M42 (J2) 3 miles, Birmingham City Centre 10.8 miles, Birmingham International Airport 17.5 miles (all distances are approximate) Barnt Green is a delightful village offering a variety of amenities including local shopping facilities, cafes, two popular gastropubs, a doctors' surgery, two churches, several dentists, St Andrews First School (with 'Outstanding Ofsted status) and Barnt Green Railway station providing direct trains to Birmingham New Street. The property itself is located 1.2 miles from the village centre on a quiet lane and is most wonderfully positioned for views over open countryside. The renowned Lickey Hills Country Park offers amazing outdoor activities and is only 1.6 miles by car, and the nearest trail is only a 10 min walk away. Upper and Lower Bittel Reservoirs are nearby, approximately 20 mins on foot. The famous 18th century St Michael's Church is only a 10 min walk from the house. There are many sporting facilities including a cricket club, Blackwell Golf Club, Barnt Green Sailing Club and many other societies including a local orchestra, and the Midland Sinfonia. There is easy access to M5/M42 motorway links, Birmingham International Airport and Birmingham City centre is approximately 10.8 miles away. Brochures More Details Brochure The Old Vic Brochure The Old Vic Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. Energy performance c Generated EPC Graph. Energy performance c Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: G Cofton Church Lane, Cofton Hackett, Birmingham, B45 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Barnt Green Station 0.8 miles Longbridge Station 1.8 miles Alvechurch Station 2.1 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Knight Frank, Birmingham 18th Floor 103 Colmore Row Birmingham B3 3AG About us We are passionate about property. Our foundations are built on supporting clients in one of the most significant decisions they'll make in their lifetime. As your partners in property, we act with integrity and are here to help you achieve the very best price for your home in the quickest possible time. We offer a range of services for your property requirements. If you are selling, buying or letting a home, or you need some frank advice and insight on the current property Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Knight Frank, Birmingham 18th Floor 103 Colmore Row Birmingham B3 3AG More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 387 6426 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference BRM012304800. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Knight Frank, Birmingham . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 387 6426 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho