My Foxtons Menu Buy Sell Rent Landlords Auctions House prices Inspiration About Contact Valuation Our services Home Rent Tenant support You are not logged in. Log in / Register Tenant Support Frequently asked questions about renting through Foxtons Log in to My Foxtons Moving in What references do I need to get? For a long let you will be asked for a previous landlord, bank, employee and/or character references to demonstrate proof of income and suitability. You will also need to provide proof of ID, proof of address and proof of a 'Right to Rent' in England through a passport or combination of passport and valid visa. For a short let you will be required to produce proof of address and either your passport, national ID card or driving licence and an employment or character reference detailing why a short let is required. For a short let tenancy where a company is the tenant you will be required to produce proof of ID for those staying at the property and a letter from the company confirming the full names of all proposed occupants. Who is responsible for contacting the utility companies after I move in? You as the tenant are responsible for setting up accounts with the utility companies directly when you move into your property and also when you leave, taking care to provide meter readings at the beginning and end of the tenancy. I can't log into My Foxtons You can reset your password via this link . Paying Rent How do I work out a monthly rental payment? The best way to work out the monthly rental payment for a property is to multiply the weekly rent by 52 and divide the total by 12. Weekly rent: £ How do I pay rent? For long lets you will be asked to set up a monthly standing order with your bank. For short lets you will need to pay the rent in full prior to the commencement of your tenancy. We accept bank transfers, bankers' drafts, and credit cards. When will the rent leave my account? Generally rent is paid by a standing order mandate and will leave your account 3 days prior to the rental due date in order to be in the recipients account on the due date (The due date is typically, although not always, the date on which you moved in). What happens if my rent is paid late? Any problems with rental payments, that may result in late payment, should be conveyed to Foxtons Property Management. Arrears letters will be issued if rent remains outstanding beyond 3 days after it was due. A default fee of interest on late rent is payable at 3% above Bank of England base rate applicable if rent is more than 14 days overdue. Help during your tenancy Who do I speak to if I have problems with my tenancy? Report and track any problems relating to your tenancy, or see an organised list of your contacts for each tenancy within your My Foxons account. Report an issue View my contacts How do I serve notice to vacate my property? Notice would need to be served in accordance with your particular lease agreement by recorded delivery to Foxtons Headquarters or by emailing [email protected] . The agreement should always be referenced. Property Management and Lettings Foxtons, Building One, Chiswick Park, 566 Chiswick High Road, London, W4 5BE What penalties will I incur should I break my lease agreement early? The primary liability is for rent until the end of the contract or its break clause point. If the landlord agrees to re-market the property and once a new tenant is found, then your liability will be reduced to covering the landlord's commission and any other expenses from when the property is re-let. Payments would be calculated on a pro-rata basis for the unexpired term of the contract. How do I renew my contract? You should inform us two months prior to the end of your tenancy to allow enough time to arrange all the related administration. Contact [email protected] for more information. Moving out How do I manage the end of tenancy process with my landlord/Property Manager? To make moving out of your property as simple as possible, please log onto My Foxtons which will guide you through the entire move out process including; Book an end of tenancy clean ( view Foxtons cleaning specification ) Access to your inventory check-in report and check-out report, once completed If relevant, view and respond to proposed deposit deductions Updates on the return of your deposit Is there a check list of things to do when I am moving out? Read through your inventory check-in report and refresh your memory about the condition of the property when you first moved in Return all items of furniture to the original room if they have been moved around – the inventory check-in report will help if you can’t remember All areas of the property need to be cleaned to the same standard they were in when you first moved in ( view Foxtons cleaning specification ) Check lights bulbs are in full working order Any outdoor space you are responsible for, like a garden or terrace, needs to look like it did when you moved in Remove any unwanted items before you leave the property, as you might be charged the cost of disposal If you have been hanging pictures or TVs on the walls, affixing brackets or inadvertently creating holes, then you are responsible for returning the walls back to their original condition Mould in the bathrooms is usually due to condensation. There are lots of mould cleaning products available for a DIY clean up! All sets of keys need to be returned to your landlord or estate agent's office, including any security passes or security fobs Take a photo of the meters on the last day of your tenancy. Contact the utility companies to give them your final readings and pay any balance owing Close your council tax account and pay any balance owing Notify TV Licensing about your change of address Re-direct your post with Royal Mail Chat to your landlord before moving out if you think there might be any issues – it can be much easier to reach a compromise in advance! Am I required to pay for an end of tenancy clean? You are required to return the property in the same condition as at the start of the tenancy, so if you would like to book a clean to help achieve this please go to My Foxtons . If you can’t remember the condition at the start of your tenancy then please check the documents section on My Foxtons where the check-in report will be stored if this was arranged through Foxtons.( view Foxtons cleaning specification ) Can Foxtons organise an end of tenancy clean for me? Yes, please go to My Foxtons where you can book and pay for your end of tenancy clean Do I need to be present for the inventory check-out? You don’t need to be present, however best practice is to be present if you can. Please check My Foxtons for the latest information on the check-out arrangements Where should I return the keys? Please return your keys to your local Foxtons office on the last day of your tenancy. If you are going to be present at the check-out inspection please hand them to the check-out clerk who will return them to Foxtons. When should I cancel my standing order for rent? Please contact your bank to cancel your standing order once your last instalment of rent has been paid in full. Foxtons are unable to cancel a standing order instruction so you must do this directly with your bank When should I close my utility accounts? Please contact your utility providers as part of the moving out process. Don’t forget to take meter readings on the last day of your tenancy My utility provider wants the name of new bill payer - what should I tell them? Please give your Landlord’s name as shown on your tenancy agreement which you can find on My Foxtons Can I leave unwanted furniture in the property? No. Please leave the property as noted in the inventory check in. If you leave unwanted personal items in the property you may be charged for the cost of removal How do I retrieve my post once I have vacated the property? Please make arrangements before you vacate the property to redirect your post as this arrangement can take a few days to activate (link to royal mail redirection service) How can I get a reference? Please contact your Landlord or Property Manager for a reference. You can communicate with your Landlord or Property Manager via the Issue Tracker on My Foxtons I have left items in the property - can I have them back? Please contact your Landlord or Property Manager as soon as possible. You can communicate with your Landlord or Property Manager via the Issue Tracker on My Foxtons Deposit How much is my deposit? Please check the latest deposit certificate which you can find in documents on My Foxtons which will confirm the amount of the deposit Is my deposit protected and can I have a copy of the certificate? If your tenancy falls under the deposit protection rules you can find the latest deposit certificate in documents on My Foxtons which will also confirm the amount of the deposit When will I get my deposit back? Your landlord has up to 10 days from your vacate date to propose deductions from your deposit. Once agreed your deposit will be sent back to you by bank transfer and this can take up to 3-5 working days to clear into your account. If there is a disagreement then that portion of the deposit will be retained pending a resolution How will I get my deposit back? The deposit will be returned to the lead tenant via bank transfer Can we split the deposit and have it returned to different accounts? The deposit will be returned to the lead tenant. If you are unsure who that person is you can easily check on My Foxtons, and change the lead tenant if necessary What happens if I don’t agree with my Landlords proposed deductions? Please go to My Foxtons for guidance on the next steps, in the event you and your landlord cannot reach a compromise on proposed deductions Where can I find a copy of the inventory check-out report? If a check-out report was booked through Foxtons you will find a copy at My Foxtons in your documents folder. It can take up to 3 days after the move out date for the report to be received from the check-out clerk Rental searches Lettings search Short lets Student accommodation Corporate relocation services Tenant advice Guide to renting Right to Rent Why use Foxtons? Area guides Your tenancy My tenancy in My Foxtons Register with Foxtons Fees & terms Tenant support We value your privacy We use necessary cookies to make our website work and we'd like to use other cookies to give you the most relevant experience. Click “Accept all” to agree to all cookies, or for more options click on “Change Settings”. For more information see our cookie policy Accept All Change Settings Privacy and Cookies Policy Introduction Strictly necessary Functionality cookies Performance cookies Performance cookies Performance cookies let us collect information about how the website is used. For example, we may record what pages are visited most. This data allows us to see where we could optimise the website and make it more efficient. Foxtons: tbp, twp2, tws. tco, referrer Foxtons uses performance cookies to help understand how our visitors use the website and how we can improve our website. We also host the following third-party solutions, which may set the following cookies: Google Analytics: _ga, _gat, _gat_UA-<TOKEN>, utmx, utmxx Google Analytics cookies are used to distinguish users and sessions and gather usage data related to your visit to our website so we can improve our website. AddThis: _atssc, _atuvc, _atuvs, _ Some pages may have the AddThis social plugin to allow you to share pages to your social network and for Foxtons to view reports on which pages were shared and how. Crazyegg: _ceir, is_returning, _CEFT, _ceg.s, _ceg.u, s, u, cer.s, cer.v Crazyegg is a third-party optimisation solution which helps us to test, analyse and improve each user's experience on the website based on their online behaviour. Functionality cookies Functionality cookies allow the website to remember settings such as the screen size, which lets us serve the right content without overloading any network or device capacity. mortgage - Stores your mortgage settings for use across the website. recent - Stores information of the last pages you have viewed. screen - Stores the screen size of the device that you are viewing our website on. This allows us to serve the right content for the device you are using without overloading your network and preserving best layout. Strictly necessary cookies Strictly necessary cookies allow you to log into your account and view account details without a need to log in again every time you navigate to subsequent page. These cannot be disabled. foxtons_session - Stores information about whether you are logged in into your account or not. visit_secure_token2 (session) - Stores information necessary to access your account. cookie_policy_displayed - Stores information about the cookie policy declaration. search - Stores your preferences as to how you prefer your results to be displayed i.e display 10 properties per page and price filter ‘from highest to lowest'. is_logged_in - Recognize when a user is logged in, to allow access to restricted areas of the site. What are cookies? To make your experience visiting the Foxtons website as simple and convenient as possible we place small data files known as "cookies" on your computer. This practice is used by many websites. Cookies are created when your browser loads the website. The website sends information to the browser which then creates a text file. Cookies are stored on your device for various periods of time, from as short time as the duration of your browsing session to several months. Every time you come back to the website, the browser retrieves and sends cookies to the server, which helps to improve your experience of the website by: Remembering settings, so you don't have to re-enter them every time you visit Remembering your last properties and searches, helping you to keep on top of new listings Measuring use of the website so that we can see where we can improve You can manage and/or delete these small files from your device, but please be aware that this will limit the functionality that we are able to offer to you. Allow all cookies Save preferences Find your next home Search Unlock the true value of your home Get a valuation Lettings & Property Management New to Foxtons? Instruct us Existing customers Login to My Foxtons Explore news articles, area guides and interior design trends Setting the standard in estate agency We combine best-in-class people and technology to set the standard for service in estate agency Find your nearest office Find your nearest office Our Services Setting the standard in estate agency First time buyers How much can I borrow? Guide to buying Moving home How much is my home worth? Register with Foxtons Find a property New Homes availability Asia Pacific Help for buyers Advantages of choosing Foxtons Mortgages Conveyancing Stamp Duty calculator Why buy a new build? Property Surveys and Lease Extensions Our services Sell your home Foxtons Private Office How much is your home worth? Book a valuation appointment Help Help & Guides Contact us Rental searches Lettings Short lets Corporate relocation Student accommodation Tenant advice Guide to renting Right to Rent Why use Foxtons? Area guides Your tenancy Register with Foxtons My tenancy in My Foxtons Fees & terms Tenant support Our services Find tenants Property Management Specialist services Short lets Help being a landlord Help & Guides Buy to Let Mortgages Property inspiration Blog Interior Design Local life Area guides Schools Let's get social Facebook Twitter Instagram Our company About us Our history Investor Relations Careers Inside Foxtons News from Foxtons Foxtons' Minis Testimonials Social Media Community Community Environment People Our services Register to find a new home Valuation New Homes Corporate Relocations Customer services Opening hours Existing Lettings Feedback Complaints Internal enquiries Press Reports Recruitment Investor Relations All other enquiries Buying and Selling Buying New Homes Selling Landlords and Renting Landlords Property Management Renters Short lets Specialist Services B2R & Institutional PRS Foxtons Private Office Corporate relocation Asia Pacific About Foxtons About Foxtons Estate Agent Sales jobs in London Property Management in London Tenancy FAQs Mobile apps Branch Finder Our estate agencies Central London estate agents East London estate agents North London estate agents South London estate agents Surrey estate agents West London estate agents Popular searches London property for sale London lettings London short lets New Homes in London Property intelligence Area guides House price reports Rental reports Home valuation service © Foxtons Estate Agents Investors Terms and Conditions & Privacy Policy Cookies Policy Sitemap