Search Report a repair Contact us My Move Account Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Sell Property valuation Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Local Sold House Prices Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Looking to move? Get your property valuation Get your conveyancing solicitor Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations How much can I afford? - use our budget planner and find out Something need fixing - Report a repair Landlords Rental valuation Book an accurate lettings valuation Get an instant online valuation Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations Looking to let? Get your property valuation Get your property managed New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Mortgages Mortgage Services Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Book your mortgage appointment About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection Branches Sales Amersham Hazlemere and Great Missenden High Wycombe Princes Risborough Land & New Homes Lettings Amersham High Wycombe Princes Risborough Fine & Country Fine & Country South Buckinghamshire Other departments Sales Progression Property Management JNP Handyman Services Head Office xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? My Move xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Branches xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Report a repair - Fixflo Branches Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Sell Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Local Sold House Prices Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Existing tenants Report a maintenance issue What to do in an emergency Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations Landlords Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Mortgages Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Careers About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection You're in control We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. To learn more about how we use cookies, please see our Cookie Policy . You can manage your preferences now on this banner, or via your browser at anytime. Functional Active Inactive Analytical Active Inactive Non-essential Active Inactive Manage Accept Buying glossary A - E F - K L - P Q - S T - Z A Advance Mortgage Loan. Auction The sale of a property to the highest bidder. B Buildings Insurance Insurance against the cost of repair or rebuilding a property from scratch following structural damage, for example by flood, fire or storm. Buy to Let An investment where you buy a property – usually with a mortgage – and rent it out. C Chain A number of linked property sales where exchange of contracts must take place simultaneously. Closing Date The date set for submission of offers when more than one party show interest in the property. Completion Date Completion of the legal transaction with all monies and documents having been distributed. This is also when the seller's solicitor will instruct the estate agent to release the keys. Conclusion See under 'Subject to contracts exchanged' Contents Insurance Insurance against accidental damage or theft of all moveable contents, including furniture, appliances and soft furnishings. Contract A formal agreement between the buyer and the seller, usually prepared by a solicitor or licensed conveyancer, detailing the terms and conditions of the sale. Conveyancer Person other than and similar to a solicitor who may conduct the conveyancing. Conveyancing The legal work involved in buying and selling properties. Council Tax Levied by local councils to cover the cost of local amenities and services. Covenant A condition, contained within the Title Deeds or lease, that the buyer must comply with, which is usually applied to all future owners of the property. A restrictive covenant is one that prohibits the owner from doing something. D Deeds Legal documents assigning ownership of a property and/or land. Draft Contract Unconfirmed version of the contract. E Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) All properties let for private residential purposes must have an EPC. It is used to report the energy performance of a property. Equity The difference between the value of a property and the amount of mortgage owed. Exchange of Contracts The point at which the sale becomes legally binding from which neither party can withdraw without financial penalties - In Scotland see 'Missives Concluded'. F Fixed Price Offers are invited at the price shown Fixtures and Fittings All non-structural items included in the purchase of a property. Freehold Ownership of the property and land upon which the property is situated. Full Structural Survey A full structural survey looks at all the main features of the property, including walls, roof, foundations, plumbing, joinery, electrical wiring, drains, and garden. G Gas Safety Check Landlords are required to arrange a gas safety check to take place annually on rented properties. This must be carried out by a registered engineer. Gas Safety Record (GSR) A document which shows that gas appliances (including a gas meter) have had an annual gas safety check carried out by a registered engineer. Landlords are legally required to have a GSR produced annually. Gazumping The practice by a seller accepting a higher price than that previously agreed with someone else. Gazundering The practice by a buyer lowering his offer just before exchange of contracts. Ground rent The annual fee which a leaseholder pays to a freeholder. H Home Buyers Report The homebuyer's report comments on the structural condition of most parts of the property that are readily accessible, but does not involve in-depth investigation or the testing of water, drainage or heating systems. Housing Association A non-profit making body which lets you buy a percentage of the property and pay rent on the rest. I IMRO Investments Managers Regulatory Organisation. Regulates investment managers. Instruction When a seller instructs an estate agent to market a property. J Joint Agency Where two estate agents work together to market a property. L Land Certificate A Land Registry certificate proving ownership of property. Land Registry The Government organisation that holds records of all registered properties in England and Wales. Leasehold To be given ownership of a property but not the land it is built on. This normally requires payment of ground rent to the landlord. A leasehold is normally offered for either 999 years, 99 years or shorter terms. Local Authority Search An application made to the appropriate Local Authority requesting details of any planning or other matters which might affect the property being sold. M Maintenance Charge A charge made towards the upkeep of a leasehold property. Missives Concluded Completion of the legal transaction with all monies and documents having been distributed. This is also when the seller's solicitor will instruct the estate agent to release the keys. Mortgage Deed A legal document relating to the mortgage lenders interest in the property. Mortgage Offer A formal written offer made by a bank or building society to lend an approved amount to purchase a property. Multi-Agency The selection of two or more estate agents to act on the seller's behalf, usually incurring a higher fee than if the sale is completed by a sole agency. N Negative Equity When the value of a property is less than the outstanding sum owed on a mortgage. O Offer A bid made by a prospective buyer, this is not legally binding. Offers Over Offers are invited above the price shown. Ombudsman Independent professional bodies who investigate complaints on behalf of customers against estate agents, solicitors and insurance companies. P Part-possession The term used when a property is being sold, where a tenant has legal right of occupation. Portfolio When a landlord lets more than one property, this is called a ‘portfolio’. Private Treaty The way in which most house sales are completed in England and Wales. Property Your home or the property you wish to sell or buy. S Sale Agreed A verbal agreement from the seller. Searches Checks of local council records for planning applications and restrictions, etc. Sole Agency The choice of a single estate agent to act on the seller's behalf, incurring a lower fee than multi-agency. Solicitor Legal expert handling all documentation for the sale and purchase of a property. Stamp Duty A tax paid to the Government by the buyer upon completion. Subject to Conclusion of Missives Words used to indicate that an agreement is not yet legally binding. Subject to Contract Words used to indicate that an agreement is not yet legally binding. Survey An inspection made by a qualified surveyor. There are three main types of survey. Valuation report (for mortgage purposes), Homebuyers report (also comments on general condition) and Full Structural survey (examines structural detail). T Tenants People living in a property owned by someone else. Tender The process whereby the seller asks for written offers on a property usually with a set closing date. Title The ultimate record of ownership of a property, the evidence of which is found in the title deeds. Transfer Deeds The Land Registry document that transfers legal ownership from seller to buyer. U Under Offer When the seller has accepted an offer on the property but contracts have not yet been exchanged. V Vendor The legal name sometimes used to describe the seller of the property. Verbal Offer Offer from prospective purchaser, not legally binding on either party. W Writ Mode of commencing legal proceedings. Y Yield The amount of money a landlord receives from in rent as a proportion of the amount of money invested in the property. Book a valuation Contact your local branch My Move account Buy Find Property For Sale Land & New Homes Buying Calculators Rent Find Property To Rent Permitted payments Report a repair Sell Sell your property with us Book a property valuation Get an instant valuation Landlords Landlord services Service options & Fees Guides for landlords Services Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Helpful Links Careers Branches Privacy Notice Legal Information Accessibility Cookie Policy VAT Complaints Procedure Client Money Protection Anti Money Laundering information xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? JNP is a trading name, independently owned and operated under licence from LSLi Limited by AIG (KH) Ltd (company number 14772222), registered in England at 5 Brooklands Place, Brooklands Road, Sale, Cheshire, England, M33 3SD. Also trading as Fine & Country. We may refer you to recommended providers of ancillary services such as Conveyancing, Financial Services, Insurance and Surveying. We may receive a commission payment fee or other benefit (known as a referral fee) for recommending their services. You are not under any obligation to use the services of the recommended provider. The ancillary service provider may be an associated company of JNP.