skip to main content Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. Find out more Manage cookies Allow all cookies Manage Cookies Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. For more information about how we and our partners use cookies on our site, see our Cookie Policy Strictly necessary These cookies are necessary for the Savills website to function. Examples of this include: setting your privacy preferences, logging in to your Savills account, or filling in forms. Though these cookies cannot be switched off, you can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but please be aware that this will stop some parts of the Savills website from functioning as intended. Find out more about strictly necessary cookies here . Always allowed Functional cookies These cookies are used to enhance the performance of the Savills website, as without them certain functions of the website may not be available. While they are not vital for the website to run, they allow us to remember important information and your preferences such as previous location searches. Find out more about functional cookies here . Allow Targeting & tracking These cookies record your activity on the Savills website and our partners may use that information to show you adverts that they think you will be most interested in when you visit other websites. We may also use information recorded by these cookies to see how well these adverts are performing. Find out more about targeting and tracking cookies here . Allow Save and close Allow all cookies Location and Language Selection Close Global Location Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Global Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe Global Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Global Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe Language English English English Search Close Site Search: Search My Account Menu Menu > Find a property > Find a service > Investor Relations > Why Savills > Insight & Opinion > Contact us Close Find a property Find a property Whether buying a townhouse or selling a country cottage, leasing corporate office space or renting farmland, our experts make it their business to understand your needs and help you find the right property. Search for a property Residential real estate Property for sale in Europe Property for sale in London Property for sale in the UK Property for sale in the US Property for sale in Australia Property for sale in the Caribbean Farms & estates Farms for sale in Europe Farms for sale in the UK Farms to rent in Europe Farms to rent in the UK Commercial real estate Property for sale in Europe Property for sale in London Property for sale in the UK Property to rent in Europe Property to rent in London Property to rent in the UK Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Market your property Whether you're planning to sell, rent or are undecided, we have an expert who can help. Learn more Savills by region With the expertise of our ever-expanding specialist international network of offices we can help find you the perfect home anywhere in the world. Explore our residential coverage The intra-European staycation boom Hotels The staycation concept has extended to holiday clusters between European countries. Read this article Find a service Find a service Savills offers a wide range of specialist services from financial and investment advice to valuation, planning and property management. More Information Asset Management Buying or Selling Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Property Management Research Valuation Browse by sector We provide a full range of property-related services across a range of sectors – from retail and hospitality through to healthcare and industrial. More Information Affordable Housing Education Energy Healthcare Hotels Industrial & Logistics Infrastructure & Transport Leisure Marine Minerals & Commodities Mixed Use Office & Business Space Public Sector Residential Retail Rural Sports Venues Student Accommodation Trade-Related & Specialist Sectors Utilities, Oil & Gas Vineyards Waste Management Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Find your nearest office With over 40,000 people working across more than 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Investor Relations Investor relations Information on the company, shares and company reports. More information Financial calendar Find out more about upcoming and past financial events, including results announcements and ex-dividend dates. More information Financial results A selection of highlights, comments and data from the company's latest results. Read results Share price information Updated share price information for Savills Plc from London Stock Exchange. Read more Shareholder information Access shareholder services and read FAQs relating to Savills plc. Read more Regulatory news News and announcements relating to Savills plc. Explore latest news AGM Information on upcoming and previous Annual General Meetings. Find out more Results webcast Watch the webcast from the annual results presentation held on 16 March 2022. Watch the webcast Company information Learn more about Savills Plc's leadership, corporate governance and sustainability policy. More information Why Savills Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise spans the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East. More Information Our history We've grown a lot in 160 years. Through many monarchs and several economic cycles, we've become the international adviser of choice across every aspect of property. More Information How we work Our integrity, honesty and professionalism is what gives our clients, colleagues, investors and business partners the confidence to work with us. More Information Environmental, social & governance (ESG) Savills plc is focused on climate-related risks and working together with its clients, suppliers and the local communities to deliver a more sustainable future. More Information Awards Over the years we have been recognised as ‘best in class’ in a diverse range of disciplines. More Information Office FiT: Adapt, Evolve, Improve In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, Savills Office FiT provides clients with practical, strategic and design-led advice and insights from our global experts. Read more Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion is our hub for residential, commercial and rural articles and research from experts offering industry-leading advice and analysis. Research In-depth research and analysis into property market trends, forecasts from our specialist research teams, and market-leading commentary to help you make the right property decisions. Browse our market research International residential reports Regional residential reports Hotel reports Office reports Industrial & Logistics reports Rural reports Student accommodation reports Research services The Savills Blog The latest UK and international property market news and opinions, plus helpful guides and top tips from our renowned industry experts. Read the Savills Blog Savills News Up-to-the-minute news from our press teams providing the latest developments within Savills, and across the property industry. Read our press releases Impacts – the future of global real estate Priorities and preferences have changed, but people across the world are reconnecting. Our latest edition of Impacts, themed ‘reconnect’, explores how real estate is fundamental in helping people and businesses to connect and thrive. Read the publication Contact Us Find an office With over 40,000 people working across more than 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Savills by region With the expertise of our ever-expanding specialist international network of offices we can help find you the perfect home anywhere in the world. Explore our residential coverage Find a person Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Careers with Savills At Savills, our most valuable resource is our people. We are known for our positive, entrepreneurial culture, and for attracting some of the most innovative, dedicated and knowledgeable people in the business. Explore careers European Logistics Outlook Research Prime European logistics facilities will remain in high demand throughout 2020 as ecommerce growth accelerates Read this publication Home > Investor Relations Skip to main content Investor Relations Established in 1855, Savills plc is one of the leading real estate advisors in the world. Our range of expertise covers all the key segments of residential, office, industrial, retail, leisure, healthcare, rural and hotel property, and mixed-use development schemes. Savills is a global real estate services provider listed on the London Stock Exchange. We have an international network of over 700 offices and associates and over 40,000 staff throughout the Americas, the UK, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East, offering a broad range of specialist advisory, management and transactional services to clients all over the world. Financial highlights – full year 2022 £2.3bn Group revenue £164.6m Group UPBT 94.9p Group UEPS £805.3M Net assets Financial Highlights Chairman’s statement "Group performance ahead of expectations despite challenging markets." Nicholas Ferguson CBE, Chairman, Savills plc View Annual report Financial information Regulatory news xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-16"? 13 June 2023 Director/PDMR Shareholding 01 June 2023 Total Voting Rights 17 May 2023 Result of AGM View all regulatory news Latest reports and videos 31 December 2022 Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2022 31 December 2022 Webcast - Preliminary Results Presentation for the year ended 31 December 2022 31 December 2022 Preliminary Results Presentation for the year ended 31 December 2022 View all Latest reports Shareholder information Access details about our services and read answers to some frequently asked questions. LEARN MORE ABOUT SAVILLS PLC VIEW OUR FINANCIAL CALENDAR Our leadership Our senior management team is responsible for ensuring that our operations, services and standards reflect the values we hold true. Find out more Corporate Governance Savills is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all its activities. Find out more ESG We believe in continuous improvement. We’re committed to reducing our corporate impact on the environment and raising staff awareness of the issues. Find out more Our History Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world’s leading property agents. Find out more Why Savills? You benefit from our experience. Find out more Vision & Strategy Our vision is to be the real estate adviser of choice in the markets we serve. Find out more Annual Report Take a look at our latest annual report. Find out more Our vision is to be the real estate adviser of choice in the markets we serve. We recognise that to achieve this goal we must continually think forward, anticipate trends and above all understand what those trends mean for our clients and our business. Mark Ridley , Group Chief Executive, Savills plc Leadership and governance Email alerts Sign up for our email alerts to receive our latest financial results and regulatory news. Email alerts Contact us You can contact us via email, telephone or post. Contact us Subscribe to receive exclusive news and listings Send Success! You are now subscribed to the Savills mailing list. Sorry, something went wrong. Savills by region Africa Botswana Egypt Kenya Mauritius Mozambique Namibia The Seychelles South Africa Zambia Zimbabwe Americas & Caribbean The Bahamas Barbados Canada The Cayman Islands Mexico Turks & Caicos USA Asia Pacific Australia China Hong Kong SAR India Indonesia Japan Korea Macao SAR Malaysia New Zealand The Philippines Singapore Taiwan, China Thailand Vietnam Europe Austria Belgium Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hungary Ireland Italy Jersey Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Monaco Montenegro The Netherlands Norway Poland Portugal Romania Serbia Spain Sweden Switzerland United Kingdom Middle East Abu Dhabi Bahrain Dubai Israel Oman Pakistan Saudi Arabia Sharjah UAE Residential real estate Property for sale in Europe Property for sale in London Property for sale in the UK Property for sale in the US Property for sale in Australia Property for sale in the Caribbean Property to rent in Europe Property to rent in London Property to rent in the UK Property to rent in China Property to rent in the US Commercial real estate Property for sale in Europe Property for sale in London Property for sale in the UK Property to rent in Europe Property to rent in London Property to rent in the UK Rural real estate Farms for sale in Europe Farms for sale in the UK Farms to rent in Europe Farms to rent in the UK Services & Sectors Services Asset Management Buying or Selling Property Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Research Property Management Valuation Sectors Affordable Housing Education Education Energy Healthcare Hotels Industrial & Logistics Infrastructure & Transport Leisure Marine Minerals & Commodities Mixed Use Office & Business Space Public Sector Residential Retail Rural Sports Venues Student Accommodation Trade-Related & Specialist Sectors Utilities, Oil and Gas Waste Management About Savills Our history Our business ethics Our management Group structure Vision & strategy ESG at Savills More information Sitemap RSS Feeds Accessibility Feedback Slavery & Human Trafficking Terms & Conditions Privacy & Cookies Talk to us Find a Savills Office Find a Savills Employee All content © copyright Savills. All rights reserved. Savills plc, incorporated and registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD. Registered number: 2122174. Savills plc is a holding company, some of whose subsidiaries are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Find us on social Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Facebook YouTube