Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 22 1 22 1 ONLINE VIEWING Carpenter Road, Edgbaston See map £2,750,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 24/05/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×6 BATHROOMS ×3 SIZE 6,234 sq. ft. (579 sq. m.) TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Grand residence Six bedrooms plus annexe Four reception rooms Refitted kitchen Stunning character features 0ver 0.5 acres Secure gated entrance Over 6300 square feet Prime Edgbaston location Freehold Property description Welcome to one of the finest properties in Edgbaston. This grand Victorian property offers over 6300 sq ft of versatile accommodation including six bedrooms and three bathrooms plus annexe with four reception rooms, private gated entrance and a beautiful garden to the rear. Property - McHugo Homes are proud to present to you one of the finest residences in the region. This beautiful Victorian property offers over 6300 sq ft of versatile accommodation and exudes character from the moment you step through the front door, with impressive tall ceilings and intricate features from classic wooden framed sash windows to the intricacies of coffered and cornice detailing befitting of its era, circa 1851, not to mention fabulous fireplace centre pieces, with a stunning atrium drawing the eye. The "grand" trait is a theme throughout as the property offers flexible accommodation with six double bedrooms overs three floors, plus annexe which could suit a wealth of families including those combining multi generational living. A ground floor combines four reception rooms with a sympathetically refitted kitchen and breakfast area, plus welcoming entrance hallway, boot room, WC and access to the cellar. The first and second floor double bedrooms are complemented by two family bathrooms and large ensuite to principle bedroom, plus the luxury of further family room, laundry and a fascinating gallery landing overlooking atrium. An annex offers two further bedrooms for the family together with bathroom and further sitting and kitchen areas. Discreet additions and maintenance has been conducted by the current vendor who has enjoyed in excess of 30 years here at the home, with privacy and security at the heart of this, with private electric operated gated entrance and sheltered driveway, together with alarm system. and private gated entrance and a beautiful garden to the rear. Interested parties will be keen to hear that further upgrades would enhance the property even further. The rear garden is a particular favourite of the family, as set in 0.5 acres a sun soaked aspect and flat lawned garden with tree lined borders will be the envy of most. Area - Carpenter Road is one of the most desirable roads within Edgbaston, situated in a central Edgbaston location just off Church Road and Wellington Road, and within the prestigious Calthorpe Estate, an urban conservation area, committed to preserving the quality and original character of the area, on the very cusp of Birmingham city centre. The property is very short walk to the attractive boutiques and shopping provision of Edgbaston Village, and the city beyond, plus amenities of Harborne High Street, including Marks & Spencers Food hall and Waitrose, along with a plethora of independent restaurants and eateries. Queen Elizabeth hospital, Birmingham University and Medical Quarter are within easy reach, whilst very accessible to A38 links to M6 motorway and Birmingham International Airport. Excellent primary secondary and prep schools are very close by such as Edgbaston High School for Girls, The Priory School and The King Edward Foundation Schools, along with Hallfield Preparatory School, West House, The Blue Coat and St George's Schools. Leisure facilities are provided with The Edgbaston Priory Tennis and Squash club-host to prestigious tennis events, Edgbaston Golf club nearby, with world renowned Edgbaston cricket ground the home of international cricket tournaments. Recreational facilities such as Botanical Gardens and Martineau Gardens are a short walk. Approach - Electric operated gated entrance with pedestrian gate, tree lined boundaries and shale approach, coach doors to courtyard and front door to: Entrance Hallway - Double oak doors leading to porchway offering Minton tile flooring, light point and alarm panel, which in turn access' the grand entrance hall including Minton tile flooring, ornate arches with tall ceilings, two radiators, stairway to first floor with bespoke crafted bannister, lobby area leads to garden, and doors to: Drawing Room - Front facing wooden framed sash windows, wrought iron fireplace with carved wooden mantle surround, ceiling cornice and light point, wooden flooring. Living Room - Impressive living area, two radiators, marble fireplace, tall wooden framed sash windows offering garden aspect, cornice detailing, carpeted, power points. Sitting Room - Wooden framed sash window with front aspect and further windows offering dual exposure as pained glass door access to garden, marble fireplace centre piece, ceiling cornice detailing, two wall light points, double doors open to living room. Dining Room - Wooden framed sash windows, fitted storage, radiator, ceiling light point and cornice detailing and rose. Kitchen - Refitted 'Shortlands' kitchen, offering range of wall and base mounted American cherry wood cabinetry with features including a butlers pantry and zinc lined bread tray, granite worktops and inset stainless steel sink with mixer tap and further 'Insinkerator', integrated 'Gaggenua' appliances double fridges with freezers below, oven and steam oven, four ring induction hob plus gas ring domino hob and extractor hood above, fitted 'Neff' dishwasher, 'Caple' microwave, wooden framed sash windows, radiator, opening into breakfast room. Breakfast Room - Range of fitted American cherry wood cabinetry with granite worktop space, two tall radiators, wooden framed sash window, side door, recessed ceiling down lighetrs and ceiling cornice detailing, door to: Boot Room And Wc - Minton tile flooring, ceiling down lighters, sash window, separate WC Inner Hall - Fitted cloak area, carpeted stairs to first floor. Cellar - Ample storage area, housing 'Potterton' boiler, meters, fuseboards and sump pump. First Floor Landing - Spacious landing with wooden flooring and offering beautiful atrium with coffered ceiling, two radiators, four wall light points and doors to: Principle Bedroom - Decorative ceiling cornice, light point, wooden framed sash windows, carpeted, fitted wardrobes, radiator, door to: Ensuite - Tiled flooring, corner shower cubicle, low level WC and wash hand basin within concealed vanity unit, four recessed ceiling down lighters, wooden framed sash windows. Bedroom Two - Dual aspect wooden framed sash windows, wooden flooring, decorative cornice detailing, recessed ceiling down lighters, fitted wooden book case, fireplace with marble surround and tiled hearth, power points. Bedroom Three - Garden facing wooden framed sash windows, fitted wardrobes, ceiling light point, radiator, wash hand basin Bedroom Four - Front facing wooden framed sash windows, fitted wardrobes, wash hand basin, wooden flooring, radiator, power points, ceiling cornice and light point. Family Bathroom - Matching suite of shower, bath, low level WC and wash hand basin, tiling to splash back areas. Storage - Airing cupboard with further storage, door to bedroom two Hallway - Carpeted inner hallway, ceiling light point, second stairway leads downstairs plus stairway to second floor, doors to: Utility/Laundry Room - Range of fitted storage units, ceiling light point, boiler, wooden farmed sash window. Family Room - Dual aspect sash windows, carpeted, radiator, fitted storage, ceiling light point. Wc - Obscure glazed sash window, ceiling light point, radiator, low level WC and wash hand basin. Second Floor - Bedroom Five - Fitted wardrobes, side facing window, radiator, wash hand basin, wall and ceiling light point, power points. Bedroom Six - Side aspect window, fitted wardrobe, radiator, carpeted, ceiling light point. Gallery Landing - Ceiling skylights above atrium, carpeted flexible gallery area, ceiling light point, power points, doors to: Bathroom - Matching suite of bath, low level WC, pedestal sink and bidet, radiator, wooden framed sash window, light point. Store - Ceiling light point, exposed wooden floor. Annexe - Entrance - Stairs to first floor, radiator and doors to: Sitting Room - Side facing window plus double opening French doors, two ceiling light points, radiator, power points, carpeted. Kitchen/Breakfast Room - Fitted kitchen area with storage and appliances of four ring gas hob, four windows with internal courtyard aspect, ceiling light points, retaining wooden partition between kitchen and breakfast area. First Floor Landing - Carpeted, ceiling light point, storage and doors to: Bedroom - Tall ceiling, light point, radiator, window with internal courtyard aspect. Bedroom - Front courtyard facing window, carpeted, radiator, power points, ceiling light point. Bathroom - Suite of bath with shower above, pedestal sink and low level WC, ceiling light point, obscure glazed window. Garden - Situated within over .5 acre, offering mature and established shrubbery and tree lined borders, predominantly laid to lawn and extremely well maintained, boundary walls, paved patio area and inner courtyard. Garden Store - Dual access, store with WC adjacent. TENURE: FREEHOLD COUNCIL TAX BAND: H EPC: E (ANNEXE EPC is also E) Disclaimer - With approximate measurements these particulars have been prepared in good faith by the selling agent in conjunction with the vendor(s) with the intention of providing a fair and accurate guide to the property. However, they do not constitute or form part of an offer or contract nor may they be regarded as representations, all interested parties must themselves verify their accuracy. No tests or checks have been carried out in respect of heating, plumbing, electric installations or any type of appliances which may be included. Brochures Carpenter Road, Edgbaston Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EE Rating Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Carpenter Road, Edgbaston Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Five Ways Station 0.4 miles Birmingham New Street Station 1.2 miles University Station 1.2 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent McHugo Homes, Birmingham C/O Abacus Court Bull Street, Harborne, Birmingham, B17 0HH About McHugo Homes McHugo Homes is founded by myself, Andy Mchugo. I offer a personal and bespoke service dedicated to selling property for my clients, assisting both buyers and sellers move home within Harborne, Quinton and Halesowen. Approach With a wealth of property knowledge in the local area, my passion is helping people move home. In my opinion these are two vital characteristics you need in an exceptional Estate Agent. My approach is ultra profess Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY McHugo Homes, Birmingham C/O Abacus Court Bull Street, Harborne, Birmingham, B17 0HH More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 387 6796 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 32343828. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by McHugo Homes, Birmingham . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 387 6796 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho