Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Share this Share on Facebook Share on Twitter https://www.rightmove.co.uk/moving-stories/dilly-carter-finding-home-fit-family/?utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=sharing&utm_campaign=moving-stories Page link copied! Finding a home that fits our family was our right move Share this Share on Facebook Share on Twitter https://www.rightmove.co.uk/moving-stories/dilly-carter-finding-home-fit-family/?utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=sharing&utm_campaign=moving-stories Page link copied! Dilly and her husband Charley had lived in their cosy two-bedroom Hertfordshire home since relocating to the UK from the USA in 2012. They’d enjoyed five years living there: a rented 1940s cottage, which had lots of original features that they loved. And even though the property was rented, they’d been able to renovate it in a way that worked for their family. However, in 2017, Dilly and Charley decided they needed to move. Unfortunately, Dilly’s mum had fallen ill, so they wanted a home that she could move into with them, as well as more space for their growing family. “It’s super common for Asian families to invite their elderly family members to live with them when they get older, especially if they are unwell,” says Dilly. “We knew this next house was going to be our longer-term home, so it was important we had space to have, and grow, our family. We’re a really sociable household, so we also knew that we wanted to live in an open-plan space, for entertaining. It also had to be walking distance to the high street, close to an green space for our dog, Buddy, to run around, and good schools nearby.” This should be the place that when you walk through the front door you get the feeling of ‘ahh, I’m home’ They began their search on Rightmove, drawing their search area so they’d still be in Hertfordshire, and using filters to set the minimum number of bedrooms they’d need. As well as ensuring there were enough rooms, they also wanted a home with a big garden too, to accommodate their future plans. Dilly is a professional organiser, founder of @declutterdollies , author of the guide to organising your home ‘Create Space’, and provides decluttering advice on the BBC ONE show, ‘Sort Your Life Out’. Being able to make the most of her skills was important to Dilly, so plenty of storage space was another thing she wanted from her next home. Their search got off to a bit of a false start, after being outbid on a property they liked. When they eventually found their dream home, they recognised that though it might not be perfect, it had huge potential. The three-bedroom semi-detached house had a lot of walls and small rooms, so Dilly and Charley had to envision what it could look like with a bit of work. But the thing that sparked that overwhelming “this is the one” moment was the large garden. The couple have done lots of work on the house since getting their keys. They’ve knocked down multiple walls in order to create that longed-for open-plan space, as well as renovating both bathrooms, and transforming the conservatory into a brick extension. Lastly, but most importantly, they got planning permission to build an annexe at the back of the garden for Dilly’s mum. “We’ve been able to turn this house into a home – it’s very welcoming and social, comfortable but cool. We made it open plan but kept sprinkles of its original character throughout. Home for me is a place I can have my friends and family over, and enjoy spending time with them in a space that we’ve made our own. And I think we’ve been able to achieve that”, says Dilly. And the family have future plans for a loft conversion, to transform the front of the house, and install a new roof. A home that’s made even better by the local community Their home is in a cul-de-sac, which was something Dilly always wanted after she grew up living in one that felt safe, and friendly. They love their neighbours, and have built a real community up while living there. “We love this road, and we wouldn’t move out of this area for anything. It’s got such a lovely feel, being in a cul-de-sac and just having that close-knit environment of everyone around you. We’ve got the best neighbours in the world, and I absolutely adore them.” Some advice for people who don’t know where to start? “It can feel scary to make a decision as big as moving home. Remember your end vision, and where your house will lead you, rather than where you are now, or what it looks like full of someone else’s stuff. We had to look past the layout when we viewed it, remembering that we’d be able to make changes to the layout that would make it better suited to our family. The furniture that was there when we viewed the house also wasn’t to our taste, but you just need to look past that and visualise your own things in it!” Dilly’s tips are to assess the space and what your priorities are: whether it’s to build an office, or external gym, or the amount of storage space. “Whenever I’ve searched for a new home for my family, or even advised my clients, I am always looking out for storage space. As an organiser myself, it’s not just the floor space, but crucially, how I can move all our belongings from one home to another, and make sure there’s enough room to store it all. That’s something I’ll always think about when viewing a home, as it’s so important you’re in a space that’s right for you”, says Dilly. View this post on Instagram A post shared by Rightmove (@rightmoveuk) “Whether you’re moving into your first house, your forever home, or into somewhere that’s going to be temporary – this should be the place that when you walk through the front door you get the feeling of ‘ahh, I’m home’.” To help others see how they could break down their home move, Dilly partnered with Rightmove to share her story in our mini moves campaign. Take a closer look at our helpful guides and tools to help you take the first step towards your home move. Share this Share on Facebook Share on Twitter https://www.rightmove.co.uk/moving-stories/dilly-carter-finding-home-fit-family/?utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=sharing&utm_campaign=moving-stories Page link copied! More moving stories... Medina built her nest without buying it The former midwife has chosen renting as a long-term lifestyle choice. Go to article Buying a houseboat in London was my right move Sick of the high rental costs and noise of inner city life, Harry swapped his urban digs for life on a houseboat. Go to article Taking a punt on a Scottish castle was our right move Find out why... Go to article View all moving stories Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Resources Where can I live? Schools Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Mobile apps Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London London stations Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Agents and Developers Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho