Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 25 2 25 2 Greenhill Gardens, Greenhill, Edinburgh, EH10 See map Offers Over £2,850,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 12/06/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×7 BATHROOMS ×5 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Beautifully situated on one of south Edinburgh's most sought after residential addresses Well positioned for access to the city centre and a wide range of amenities Within a mile of George Watson's College with George Heriots and Merchiston Castle schools also situated on the south side of the city Substantial detached Victoria villa in immaculate order having been extensively renovated in recent years Generously proportioned accommodation over two principal floors extending to over 7700 sq ft in total Superb family living and reception space throughout the ground floor with elegant dining and drawing rooms as well as comfortable family rooms Seven comfortable bedrooms with five bathrooms (three en suite) Detached triple garage with additional games room above, as well as extensive parking in front Beautifully tended mature gardens to the front and rear EPC Rating = D Property description Magnificent and substantial detached Victorian villa in immaculate order throughout, well situated on one of Edinburgh's most sought after residential addresses Description 38 Greenhill Gardens is a magnificent and substantial detached Victorian villa which has undergone significant renovation in recent years and is immaculately presented throughout. With all round aspects, but principally to the east and west, there is an abundance of natural light throughout the day, and much of its original charm has been successfully re-instated by the current owner, who has replaced features such as the extensive plasterwork, mantelpieces and stripped timber floors. The windows are double glazed throughout yet have been kept in their original style, creating an efficient and warm house yet keeping true to its original style. The front door opens to the entrance vestibule which leads to the reception hall, from where the principal reception rooms radiate, as well as the main family living space. The elegant dining room has a west facing square bay, as well as detailed cornicing, impressive timber mantelpiece with gas fire, dado rail, stripped timber floors and two entrances. Adjacent to here is the spectacular and generously proportioned drawing room, which is a particularly fine west facing room with a glorious bay window overlooking the front garden. It again has many delightful features including wonderful plasterwork and a striking white marble mantelpiece with gas fire. The beautifully appointed kitchen was hand built using the finest oak, and is practically laid out with generous storage and worktop space. There is a gas-fired Aga in addition. The family sitting room is situated towards the rear of the house and is a wonderfully comfortable room with a door opening to the rear terrace and garden beyond. The home office is located off the family room and is a spacious room, giving a sense of privacy and seclusion from the main part of the house. There is also a self-contained bedroom and shower room to the north side of the house, ideal for an elderly relative or live-in nanny. In addition, there is also a large utility room and excellent storage throughout the ground floor, as well as access to the two integral single garages to the rear of the house. The impressive original stair rises to the upper floor, where there is a half-landing with access to a self-contained suite, with generous double bedroom, a further sitting room and a WC. The stair continues to the upper landing where the five remaining bedrooms are accessed. The principal bedroom is generous in proportion and well positioned to benefit from the morning light. There is a well-appointed and fully fitted dressing room as well as a luxurious en suite bath and shower room. There is a charming balcony also, which is a wonderful place to sit in the morning sun. There are two further double bedrooms with en suite bathrooms, while the two additional bedrooms are served by the excellent family bathroom with twin baths. The house is incredibly private with a variety of mature trees providing superb screening. It sits back on its site, with an easily maintained front garden giving lots of colour to the front. A gated paviored driveway has a turning circle and parking to the front, with a further gate access to the rear of the property, with access to the two integral garages, as well as the detached triple garage with a games room above. There is extensive parking here also. The garden is mature, colourful and private, with a generous lawn surrounded by well-stocked borders with a variety of shrubs, plants and trees providing colour for much of the year. Location Greenhill Gardens is a highly desirable residential street characterised by fine detached Victorian villas, located approximately 1.5 miles from the city centre. There is an excellent choice of local specialist shops, bars, restaurants and cultural facilities nearby in Marchmont, Bruntsfield and Morningside. The area is a highly sought after location for families and professionals being in close proximity to Edinburgh University, the financial district and many of the city's independent schools including George Watson's College, George Heriot's, and Merchiston Castle School on the south side of the city. Local recreation facilities include The Commonwealth swimming pool, The Dominion cinema and theatres. The open spaces of Bruntsfield Links, the Meadows and Blackford Hill are all under a mile away, while The Braid Hills and the Pentlands are within a couple of miles. Square Footage: 7,750 sq ft Additional Info Listing: The property is not listed but lies within the Merchiston and Greenhill Conservation Area. Fixtures and Fittings: All fitted carpets, curtains, light fittings and white goods are included in the sale. All plant containers are not included in the sale, except where plants are adhered to wall. All garden furniture is not included in the sale except the bench in the front garden. Statue at back patio not included in the sale. Brochures Web Details Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Rating Graph Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Greenhill Gardens, Greenhill, Edinburgh, EH10 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Haymarket Station 1.0 miles Edinburgh Waverley Station 1.4 miles Slateford Station 1.6 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Savills, Edinburgh Wemyss House 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise span the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa, and the Middle East. Our scale gives us wide-ranging specialist and local knowledge, and we take pride in providing best-in-class advice as we help individuals, businesses and institutions make better property decisions. Outstanding property We have been advising on Read more More properties from this agent Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Savills, Edinburgh Wemyss House 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH More properties from this agent Call agent : 0131 381 1711 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference EDT220473. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Savills, Edinburgh . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0131 381 1711 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho