Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 11 1 11 1 Queen Anne's Gate, St James, SW1H See map Guide Price £33,000,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 22/05/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Apartment BEDROOMS ×8 BATHROOMS ×7 TENURE Share of Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Property description Grand Grade II* listed flat on one of Westminster’s most historic streets, with ballroom, sauna, and private lift, as well as numerous reception rooms. Entering the flat on the ground floor, a long corridor opens onto a large hall with a circular staircase. At the near end of the corridor is a panelled dining room or library, while the far end leads into a large reception room. Next door is a second reception room, and beyond that a bedroom and bathroom suite. All three of these rooms offer exceptionally high ceilings and wide bow windows overlooking St James’s Park. A second bathroom, a guest loo and a private lift complete this floor. Upstairs, on the first floor, a glorious ballroom with four window bays occupies the entire street side of the property. On the park side are three more bedrooms with three bathrooms, one of them forming a private suite. Both the ground floor and first floor are decorated with gilded cornices, paved and parquet flooring, pillars and columns, chandeliers and moulded ceilings, all adding to the sense of scale and splendour. Downstairs, on the lower ground floor, is a spacious kitchen with an island cooking unit and separate street access. This floor also contains an ensuite bedroom, a second potential bedroom or home gym, a sauna and finally an impressive room that occupies the entire width of the building and opens onto the garden. This last space has the potential to be reimagined as a media room, a family room, or even a swimming pool subject to planning permission. The building is Grade II* listed, part of a block of terraced townhouses constructed in 1837 by the celebrated architect James Elmes and his son. The street side of the flat has a porticoed entrance, private to this property, while the park side has a beautiful stucco façade. In addition, the flat has the sole use of the garden, which offers direct access onto St James’s Park. Queen Anne’s Gate is one of the most historic streets in London, home to many of the country’s senior statesmen over the last two centuries, including the celebrated Victorian prime minister Lord Palmerston. It is located in the heart of London, with St James’s Park opposite, and the major sites of Westminster all within walking distance, including the Houses of Parliament, Buckingham Palace and Westminster Abbey. Brochures Particulars Read more Tenure: Share of Freehold When the freehold ownership is shared between other properties in the same building. Read more about tenure type in our glossary page. GROUND RENT A regular payment made by the leaseholder to the freeholder, or management company. Read more about ground rent in our glossary page. £100 per year ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE A regular payment for things like building insurance, lighting, cleaning and maintenance for shared areas of an estate. They're often paid once a year, or annually. Read more about annual service charge in our glossary page. £8600 LENGTH OF LEASE How long you've bought the leasehold, or right to live in a property for. Read more about length of lease in our glossary page. Ask agent Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Queen Anne's Gate, St James, SW1H Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode St. James's Park Station 0.1 miles Westminster Station 0.3 miles Green Park Station 0.6 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Russell Simpson, Chelsea 151A Sydney Street, SW3 6NT An estate agency for London's most beautiful homes Russell Simpson is a family-run business: understated, independent, and discreet. With a client-first ethos, we manage a considered selection of prime real estate for sale and to let across West London and are experts in these postcodes. For our team, a home is personal and needs a unique, individual approach. More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Russell Simpson, Chelsea 151A Sydney Street, SW3 6NT More properties from this agent Call agent : 020 3835 6490 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference RUS080030. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Russell Simpson, Chelsea . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 020 3835 6490 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho