Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 36 36 Beacon Lane, Lickey Hills, Birmingham, B45 See map Guide Price £1,400,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 16/03/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×4 TENURE Leasehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features 5 bedrooms 6 reception rooms 4 bathrooms 12.09 acres Far-reaching countryside views A large patio next to the house offers the perfect location for enjoying the sunny summer days A stunning Edwardian home Glorious Lickey Hills location Outbuildings Balcony Property description A private tree-lined drive from Beacon Lane sweeps up to the property. There is ample parking for several cars and access to the four car garage. This stunning Edwardian Arts & Crafts home was built in 1905 for George Cadbury Junior. Beautifully proportioned throughout this stunning property offers spacious and flowing accommodations with excellent provisions made for convenient storage throughout the entire house. Recently refurbished by the current owners the property is beautifully appointed throughout. The front door opens to a large, elegant reception hallway with herringbone parquet flooring adding a warmth of colour to the space. Doors radiate to all of the principal reception rooms and there is a useful guest cloakroom/WC and a good size storage cupboard underneath the stairs. A turning staircase rises to the first floor landing area and an arched window at the quarter landing provides wonderful views and ample natural light. The characterful drawing room is light and bright with a dual aspect. A feature viewing window allows the garden views to be enjoyed and a window to either side provides yet more natural light. There is a log-burning stove providing another focal point. The space flows through to the large formal dining room which can also be accessed via the reception hallway. This wonderful room has the benefit of a bank of three windows providing ample natural light and views over the gardens and woodland. Opposite the dining room, an excellently fitted Butler's pantry offers ample space to store and view one's dinner service. Double doors open from the dining room to the fabulous garden room. This large triple aspect space makes it possible to enjoy the gardens regardless of the time of year. French doors lead out to the large patio area and gardens beyond. Sliding doors open to the library/hobby room with a further door flowing back to the inner hall creating a wonderful flow to the accommodation. The inner hall flows around to the sitting room with a window providing lovely views and a delightful log burning stove draws the eye. There is also a second, servants' staircase to the first floor. The kitchen complex is unique. The well fitted kitchen with solid wood worksurfaces and a delightful cream Aga provides ample space for food preparation. There is a lovely, separate breakfast room ideal for less formal dining and relaxation before dinner. There is a walk in pantry off the main kitchen and a large, separate utility room next to the Butler's pantry on the opposite side of the hallway. A hall from the kitchen provides access to two large storerooms, a useful cloakroom/WC and a door to the front gardens. This superb space would also double extremely well as a boot room for returning from long muddy walks with the dogs. From the breakfast room, double doors open to the home office/study. An excellent size room and away from the hubbub of the main house it is perfect for peace whilst working. A large storage cupboard provides the perfect location for larger office equipment and a staircase descends to the large, dry cellar. From the reception hall the elegant staircase rises to the first floor landing area where all six bedrooms are located along with the family bathroom. The superb accommodation is not short of storage space, there are two banks of fitted linen closets and five separate store rooms to the first floor. The large principal bedroom suite is delightful. There are fitted wardrobes and a wonderful dressing room which would serve equally well as a sitting area for relaxation before bedtime. The superb en suite bathroom can also be used as a family bathroom, Jack and Jill style from the principal and the landing area. Set in an elevated position Beaconwood enjoys far-reaching countryside views. The landscaped gardens are a tranquil and peaceful hideaway surrounded by unspoilt woodland offering complete privacy. **For a full property description please refer to the brochure** M42 (J1) 3 miles, M40 (J3A) 9 miles, M5 (J4) 3 miles, Barnt Green Railway station 2 miles, Birmingham City Centre 10 miles (all distances are approximate) Beacon Lane leads up Beacon Hill in the rural Lickey Hills Country Park. It is only 10 miles from Birmingham City Centre and about two miles from the village of Barnt Green. Barnt Green offers a range of local shopping facilities, public houses, doctor's surgery, two churches, dentist, St Andrews Primary School and a train station. There are a number of nearby regional centres having well-renowned private schools including Stourbridge, Edgbaston, Bromsgrove and Worcester. Barnt Green has squash, tennis and cricket clubs and there are a number of golf courses within easy reach including the local Blackwell Golf Club. The Barnt Green Sailing Club is conveniently situated. Brochures More Details Brochure Beaconwood. Read more Tenure: Leasehold You buy the right to live in a property for a fixed number of years, but the freeholder owns the land the property's built on. Read more about tenure type in our glossary page. GROUND RENT A regular payment made by the leaseholder to the freeholder, or management company. Read more about ground rent in our glossary page. £50 per year ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE A regular payment for things like building insurance, lighting, cleaning and maintenance for shared areas of an estate. They're often paid once a year, or annually. Read more about annual service charge in our glossary page. £0 LENGTH OF LEASE How long you've bought the leasehold, or right to live in a property for. Read more about length of lease in our glossary page. 122 years left Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. Energy performance c Generated EPC Graph. Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Beacon Lane, Lickey Hills, Birmingham, B45 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Barnt Green Station 2.1 miles Longbridge Station 2.3 miles Northfield Station 3.3 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Knight Frank, Birmingham 18th Floor 103 Colmore Row Birmingham B3 3AG About us We are passionate about property. Our foundations are built on supporting clients in one of the most significant decisions they'll make in their lifetime. As your partners in property, we act with integrity and are here to help you achieve the very best price for your home in the quickest possible time. We offer a range of services for your property requirements. If you are selling, buying or letting a home, or you need some frank advice and insight on the current property Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Knight Frank, Birmingham 18th Floor 103 Colmore Row Birmingham B3 3AG More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 387 6426 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference BRM012126282. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Knight Frank, Birmingham . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 387 6426 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho