Unsupported browser You're using a browser that isn't supported by Facebook, so we've redirected you to a simpler version to give you the best experience. ... Allow the use of cookies from Facebook in this browser? We use cookies and similar technologies to help: Provide and improve content on Meta Products Provide a safer experience by using information that we receive from cookies on and off Facebook Provide and improve Meta Products for people who have an account For advertising and measurement services off Meta Products, for analytics, and to provide certain features and improve our services for you, we use tools from other companies on Facebook. These companies also use cookies. You can allow the use of all cookies, just essential cookies or you can choose more options below. You can learn more about cookies and how we use them, and review or change your choice at any time in our Cookie Policy . Essential cookies These cookies are required to use Meta Products. They're necessary for these sites to work as intended. Optional cookies Cookies from other companies We use tools from other companies for advertising and measurement services off Meta Products, for analytics, and to provide certain features and improve our services for you. These companies also use cookies. More information If you allow these cookies: We'll be able to better personalise ads for you off Meta Products, and measure their performance Features on our products will not be affected Other companies will receive information about you by using cookies If you don't allow these cookies: We won't use cookies from other companies to help personalise ads for you off Meta Products or to measure their performance Some features on our products may not work Other ways that you can control your information Controls in your Facebook account If you have a Facebook account, you can manage how different data is used to personalise ads with these tools. Ad settings To show you better ads, we use data that advertisers and other partners provide us about your activity off Meta Company Products, including websites and apps. You can control whether we use this data to show you ads in your ad settings . The Meta Audience Network is a way for advertisers to show you ads in apps and websites off the Meta Company Products . One of the ways Audience Network shows relevant ads is by using your ad preferences to determine which ads you may be interested in seeing. You can control this in your ad settings . Ad preferences You can use your ad preferences to learn why you're seeing a particular ad and control how we use information that we collect to show you ads. Off-Facebook activity You can review your off-Facebook activity, which is a summary of activity that businesses and organisations share with us about your interactions with them, such as visiting their apps or websites. They use our Business Tools , such as Facebook Login or Meta pixel, to share this information with us. This helps us do things such as give you a more personalised experience on Meta Products. Learn more about off-Facebook activity , how we use it and how you can manage it. More information about online advertising You can opt out of seeing online interest-based ads from Meta and other participating companies through the Digital Advertising Alliance in the US, the Digital Advertising Alliance of Canada in Canada or the European Interactive Digital Advertising Alliance in Europe, or through your mobile device settings, if you are using Android, iOS 13 or an earlier version of iOS. Please note that ad blockers and tools that restrict our cookie use may interfere with these controls. The advertising companies we work with generally use cookies and similar technologies as part of their services. To learn more about how advertisers generally use cookies and the choices they offer, you can review the following resources: Digital Advertising Alliance Digital Advertising Alliance of Canada European Interactive Digital Advertising Alliance Controlling cookies with browser settings Your browser or device may offer settings that allow you to choose whether browser cookies are set and to delete them. These controls vary by browser, and manufacturers may change both the settings they make available and how they work at any time. As of 5 October 2020, you may find additional information about the controls offered by popular browsers at the links below. Certain parts of Meta Products may not work properly if you have disabled browser cookies. Please be aware that these controls are distinct from the controls that Facebook offers. Google Chrome Internet Explorer Firefox Safari Safari mobile Opera Only allow essential cookies Allow essential and optional cookies