Products Pricing Plugins Support Cloud Contact Us My Account Looking for a cartwall that works in a web browser on Windows, macOS and Linux ? Check out our sister site My Cartwall . PlayIt Cartwall One-touch audio players Windows is required to install PlayIt Cartwall . Download Anyway Download for Free Version 2.01 (Build 845) 19 January 2021 release notes | all versions | documentation | suggest a feature | eula | uninstall instructions | powered by buttons Features One-touch audio players Play from a range of popular audio formats including WAV, MP3, WMA, MP4 and FLAC Drag and drop audio files from the file system for convenient loading of tracks Arrange carts in a grid with a customisable number of rows and columns Configure an unlimited number of named pages to organise audio into categories Further classify carts with individual colours per cart Operate players and controls using keyboard commands Loop carts useful for background music beds Supports any sound card available to Windows including professional ASIO devices Compatible with touchscreens Screenshots What do PlayIt Cartwall Users think? It has amazing functionality for quick play of elements during my internet live stream (not-for-profit)... from music to sound bites. I am a radio professional by trade, though PlayIt Cartwall I use for personal use at home... it functions fantastically well. Jay, San Diego, CA Very light, switch to other pages fast and easy and the ability to trim the audio files. Cosmos, St. Lucia VERY easy to use. Anonymous Easy to use. I like the drag and drop and the ability to play multiple formats of audio. David, Texas, USA Ease to use; simple interface and operation Stu, New Zealand Easy to use, straightforward interface, it works fine! Scott, London It's easy and simple. Phil, Salzburg / Austria Very easy to load carts, very easy to use with touch screen. Like the fact that even a long title can be fully displayed on the cart. Jason, Pennsylvania, USA Ease of use...drag n drop....1 touch play and fade. Kyle, North Vancouver, BC, Canada Simple drag and drop. Escapades, France It's for free! Basti, Cologne, Germany Totally customizable! Fabrice, France Contact PlayIt Software is based in the heart of Cambridge, England, United Kingdom. You can get in touch with us by the following methods: Sales enquiries (email) info Sales enquiries (talk) Schedule a call Technical support (Facebook group) playitsoftware Technical support (email) See Support page Facebook page playitsoftware YouTube channel playitsoftware Terms and Conditions | Privacy Notice | Articles mAirList Alternative | Free Broadcasting Software | Recording Software | Free Radio Automation Software with Scheduler | Free Radio Automation Software | Software for Radio Stations Copyright © PlayIt Software Ltd 2023. All Rights Reserved. Registered Office: 71-75 Shelton Street, London, Greater London, United Kingdom, WC2H 9JQ. Registered in England & Wales. Company Number: 11947269. Build e1b55105e0867777520895f3b859fa4cd39e339f.2192.