Skip to main content Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Sign in Search jobs Search UK edition UK edition US edition Australia edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More Show More News View all News UK news World news Climate crisis Newsletters Football Coronavirus Business Environment UK politics Education Society Science Tech Global development Obituaries Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Cartoons Opinion videos Letters Sport View all Sport Football Cricket Rugby union Tennis Cycling F1 Golf Boxing Rugby league Racing US sports Culture View all Culture Film Music TV & radio Books Art & design Stage Games Classical Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Travel Health & fitness Women Men Love & sex Beauty Home & garden Money Cars Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions UK edition US edition Australia edition International edition Search jobs Hire with Guardian Jobs Holidays Live events Masterclasses Digital Archive Guardian Print Shop Patrons Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Today's paper Inside the Guardian The Observer Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Hire with Guardian Jobs Holidays Live events Masterclasses Digital Archive Guardian Print Shop Patrons Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing World Europe US Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development There is consensus among vets that non-stun methods of slaughtering livestock are worse for welfare. Photograph: Joe Giddens/PA There is consensus among vets that non-stun methods of slaughtering livestock are worse for welfare. Photograph: Joe Giddens/PA Animals This article is more than 1 year old Explainer What is non-stun slaughter and how is it treated in UK law? This article is more than 1 year old Ministers may back a Tory MP’s bid to cut the number of animals slaughtered without being stunned. Here’s what you need to know Tom Levitt Tue 12 Oct 2021 20.52 BST Last modified on Tue 12 Oct 2021 22.08 BST Ministers are considering backing a bid from Chris Loder, a Tory MP and animal welfare advocate, to cut the number of animals slaughtered without being stunned. He is planning to lay an amendment to the new kept animals bill, but what is the current law around the slaughter of animals? Ministers could back bid to cut number of animals killed without being stunned Read more What is non-stun slaughter? Stunning an animal using a captive bolt gun, electrical water bath or other methods ensures animals are unconscious at the time of slaughter. Slaughter without any method of pre-stunning is known as non-stun slaughter. What is the current UK law on it? All animals must be stunned so that they are unconscious and unable to feel pain during the slaughter process. The only exception under current UK legislation is where it can be demonstrated that the meat is destined for a religious community and slaughtered in accordance with religious rites. What is the position of religious groups? Some parts of the Muslim community do accept pre-stunning. Figures from the Food Standards Agency (FSA) indicate that in 2018 58% of all halal meat in England was pre-stunned. Shechita, which is the Jewish religious humane method of animal slaughter for food, does not accept pre-stunning. The UK government, supported by the British Veterinary Association, the National Farmers Union and others, has been working on a “ demonstration of life ” (DoL) protocol designed to give Muslim consumers assurance that small ruminant animals (sheep and goats) pre-stunned meet the religious requirements for halal meat. The protocol has been designed to prove that animals rendered unconscious via effective head-only electrical stunning before slaughter are not killed by the stun itself – thereby qualifying them as halal. Is it worse for animal welfare? In general, there is consensus among vets that non-stun methods of slaughtering livestock are worse for welfare. The British Veterinary Association says that non-stun before slaughter is worse for cattle, sheep and poultry. However, they acknowledge that there is work to be done on improving methods of stunning, particularly with poultry. The CO 2 gas shortages reported last month was a particularly difficult issue for the poultry industry, with the majority of chickens gas-stunned in the UK. This is seen as a more humane method than an electrical water bath stunner, where there have been issues with baths leaving chickens immobilised rather than unconscious. How can consumers avoid non-stun meat? They can check the accreditation of the meat they are buying, for example all RSPCA Freedom Foods and Red Tractor is from animals stunned before slaughter. Topics Animals Food Religion explainers Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Modern Slavery Act Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Patrons Back to top © 2023 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)