Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 30 1 30 1 Northumberland Street, Edinburgh, EH3 See map Offers Over £3,000,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 31/05/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Town House BEDROOMS ×4 BATHROOMS ×3 SIZE 4,953 sq. ft. (460 sq. m.) TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features 4 Bedrooms 3 Reception Rooms 3 Bathrooms Private South-Facing Garden Mews & Double Garage Property description 66 Northumberland Street is an exceptional 4/5 bedroom townhouse with south facing private garden and mews house with double garage. The property has been completely refurbished by the current owners and is presented in immaculate 'turn-key' condition. Upon entering, you are met with an impressive vestibule flooded in natural light from the recently refurbished cupola above. This flows into the hallway with refurbished original flagstone tiles and period stone staircase with mahogany balustrade. On the ground floor, there is a beautifully refurbished living room with solid wood floors and working fire. To the rear is an office / bedroom 5 which includes fitted bespoke wooden bookcases and direct access to the south facing garden through patio doors. A useful utility room is also to the rear of the ground floor. Matt white cabinets house the Miele washing machine and Miele tumble drier as well as a large Siemens fridge freezer and sink with a white silestone worktop. A guest WC is located between the study and utility room. The lower ground floor has been transformed to create a large open plan kitchen / dining / snug area. The bespoke kitchen has been fitted to the highest standard with taupe / grey solid wood cabinets under a stunning marble worktop. The kitchen island has a wraparound marble worktop and has space for 4 breakfast bar seats. Integrated appliances include a black, electric, five door Aga with induction hob, a large Gaggenau fridge/ freezer (with ice maker) and a Hotpoint dishwasher. A cosy snug area with TV is also in the kitchen area. The south facing garden can also be accessed from here. The large dining room is accessed directly off the kitchen to create a superb open plan space for entertaining, featuring a smart bar with bespoke walnut wood finish. A guest WC is located next to the lower ground floor. An 'automist' anti fire system has been installed across this open-plan area. The impressive principal bedroom takes up the entire first floor. Fitted with luxurious, thick, grey carpet and three floor to ceiling windows (with secondary glazing) this room is at the front of the property along featuring a stunning marble working fireplace, c.4m high ceilings and ornate cornicing. The dressing room is accessed off the bedroom with a full wall of bespoke wooden wardrobes, and a large white resin bathtub. The principal bathroom is accessed from this dressing room and has floor to ceiling marble tiles, double sinks and double shower. Three further bedrooms are on the second floor. The second of which is at the rear of the second floor, and has a smart en suite shower room. Double bedrooms 3 and 4 are at the front of the second floor with a family bathroom in the middle. There is excellent storage throughout the house including three lined under-pavement cellars with power at the front of the house. Secondary glazing has been installed in all windows at the front. CCTV and alarm system have also been installed. The south facing garden can be accessed from the study / bedroom 5 on the ground floor or the kitchen on the lower ground floor. This outside space has been beautifully designed to act as an outside room, with low maintenance raised borders. At the rear of the garden is the two storey mews house. The ground floor of the mews house has a cinema room with integrated screen, automatic blinds and integrated sound. A wellness area with sauna and steam room are also on the ground floor of the mews next to a neat WC. Upstairs (at street level) are two garages. These open up to Northumberland Street SW Lane to the rear. There is access to the beautiful private residents gardens at Queen Street Gardens East for £130 / year. Brochures Brochure Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. Home Report &#43; EPC Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent Northumberland Street, Edinburgh, EH3 Approximate location Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Edinburgh Waverley Station 0.5 miles Haymarket Station 1.0 miles Slateford Station 2.6 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Macgregor, Edinburgh 28 Stafford Street Edinburgh EH3 7BD - Experienced property consultants - Based in Edinburgh, with a global reach Macgregor is an Edinburgh based residential property specialist. Please contact us if you would like advice on buying or selling, to live in or for investment - we are more than happy to help. More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Macgregor, Edinburgh 28 Stafford Street Edinburgh EH3 7BD More properties from this agent Call agent : 0131 283 2833 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 66NSt. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Macgregor, Edinburgh . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0131 283 2833 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho