JavaScript is disabled on your browser. Please enable JavaScript to use all the features on this page. Skip to main content Skip to article Journals & Books Search Register Sign in View PDF Download full issue Search ScienceDirect Tzu Chi Medical Journal Volume 24, Issue 4 , December 2012 , Pages 218-222 Medical Ethics Deception and informed consent in social, behavioral, and educational research (SBER) Author links open overlay panel Michael Cheng-Tek Tai Show more Add to Mendeley Share Cite https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tcmj.2012.05.003 Get rights and content Under an Elsevier user license open archive Abstract Informed consent is the most essential part of research ethics. The requirement to explain an experiment to the participants who provide tissues/information in order to obtain their voluntary consent is absolutely necessary in any research project. It is an expression of respect regarding the autonomy of the person who participates in the experiment. Why and how is informed consent required and what if some information is intentionally withheld to facilitate the participation? This paper will briefly review the history of informed consent, discuss the components of an ethically valid informed consent and examine deception in research. Sometimes, deception is used in Social, Behavioral and Educational Research (SBER) in order to obtain accuracy information. Can this be justified? There is no doubt that, for some psychological and sociological experiments, the less the subjects know the better. The Bystander Apathy Experiment and the Milgram Experiment will be used here as examples that are discussed and analyzed. In general, deception is not acceptable in human studies. Occasionally, it is necessary to mislead the participants who are subjects of a study in order to obtain unbiased information. The Institute Review Board (IRB) must review very carefully the proposals that use deception or misrepresentation. The reasons that deception is necessary for the study purpose need to be justified in depth and there must be provision in the procedures to protect the participants. When the study is completed, it is essential that a debriefing by the investigator is provided that explains any deception or incomplete disclosure involved; this should also help the subjects to deal with any distress or discomfort experienced in the research. Previous article in issue Next article in issue Keywords Autonomy Debriefing Deception Informed consent Recommended articles Cited by (0) Copyright © 2012 Published by Elsevier B.V. Recommended articles No articles found. Article Metrics View article metrics About ScienceDirect Remote access Shopping cart Advertise Contact and support Terms and conditions Privacy policy We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads. By continuing you agree to the use of cookies . Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. or its licensors or contributors. ScienceDirect® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. ScienceDirect® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V.