My Foxtons Menu Buy Sell Rent Landlords Auctions House prices Inspiration About Contact Valuation Our services Home Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy You are not logged in. Log in / Register Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy This website is the property of Foxtons Limited of Building One, Chiswick Park, 566 Chiswick High Road, London W4 5BE. By using this website you agree that you consent to and are bound by the following terms and conditions. Copyright and Trade Marks The content of this website are © Foxtons. Reproduction of part or all of the contents in any form is prohibited other than in accordance with the following permissions: Licence to re-copy for Limited Purposes: 1) You acknowledge Foxtons as the source of the material. You must include such acknowledgement and the Foxtons web address (www.foxtons.co.uk) in the copy of the material, and 2) You must inform the third party that all the Terms and Conditions set out herewith apply to him/her and that he/she is bound by them. This licence to re-copy does not permit incorporation of the material or any part of it in any other work, publication, or website whether in hard copy or electronic or any other form. In particular (but without limitation) no part of Foxtons website, including but not limited, to photographs, property details, virtual tours and/or floorplans may be distributed or copied for any commercial purpose. You may not frame this website without the express consent of Foxtons. The Foxtons logo is a trade mark registered in the name of Foxtons in the UK and other parts of the world. Reproduction of this trade mark other than in order to view this website is prohibited. Apple and the Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc. The Land Registry data is Crown copyright and is reproduced with the permission of Land Registry under delegated authority from the Controller of HMSO. Disclaimer Foxtons takes all reasonable care to ensure that the information contained on this website is accurate, however, we cannot guarantee its accuracy and we reserve the right to change the information on this website (including these terms and conditions) at any time. You must therefore check these terms and conditions for any such changes each time you visit this website. Foxtons makes no representations or warranties of any kind with respect to this website or the content contained on it, including any text, graphics, advertisements, links or other items. Furthermore, neither Foxtons nor any other contributor to this website make any representation or gives any warranty, condition, undertaking or term either expressed or implied as to the condition, quality, performance, accuracy, fitness for purpose, completeness or freedom from viruses of the content contained on this website or that such content will be accurate, up to date, uninterrupted or error free. Nothing on this website shall be regarded or taken as financial advice. Law The user confirms that the terms and conditions and use of this website shall be governed by the laws of England and Wales and that any and all disputes arising therefrom shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts. Privacy Policy This privacy policy is issued on behalf of Foxtons Limited, part of the Foxtons Group. When we mention Foxtons, "we", "us" or "our" in this privacy policy, we are referring to Foxtons Limited. Foxtons Limited is responsible for processing your data. We are registered as a Data Controller with the Information Commissioner’s Office, the UK supervisory authority for data protection issues under number Z8907655 At Foxtons we are committed to ensuring that your privacy is protected. This privacy notice, together with our Terms and Conditions and any other notice referred to in it, explains how we collect and use your personal data when you visit our website or use our services. Please note that all personal data sent to a Foxtons email address (for whatever purpose) will be stored on our IT systems and may be subject to wider systematic monitoring procedures which we have implemented for the purpose of our legitimate business interests to protect confidential and personal data and assist in our ability to identify potential data breaches. This website is not intended for children and we do not knowingly collect personal data from children. This privacy notice was last amended in May 2022 and supersedes any earlier version. 1. Personal data we collect As a business we collect, use, store and transfer different types of personal data depending on who you are (for example, a client, customer, or job applicant). The types of data we may collect include: identity data; contact data; financial data; details of your dependents; transaction data (including, for example, details of your property requirements); IP address; website usage data; marketing and communication preference data; call recordings; information in your application form and CV; proof of right to work; employment history; criminal convictions and offences. "Sensitive Personal Information" includes information about your racial or ethnic origin, philosophical or religious beliefs, physical or mental health or condition, sexual life or orientation, or information about criminal convictions. In certain circumstances, you may also provide us with such Sensitive Personal Information, for example if you have disability related requirements. 2. How we collect personal data We use different methods to collect data from and about you, including: Direct interactions (personal data you disclose when you fill in forms, surveys, or correspond with us by post, phone, email, live chat, web, social or otherwise; through the job application process; or through property portals when you enquire about our services). Indirect interactions (personal data you disclose to third parties such as payment service providers, data brokers or aggregators (e.g. TwentyCi, Rightmove, Zoopla (based inside the UK/EU), or Facebook (based outside the EU); or which is available through publicly available sources or registers such as Companies House, the Electoral Register, Government or Police Databases). Aggregated data (personal data, usually anonymised or aggregated to groupings, from systems such as our website, CRM or phone systems; or service providers such as credit check or profiling companies). 3. How we use your personal data We collect information about you: to process the purchase, rental, sale or let of a property through Foxtons (or from one of our clients); to contact you about services and offers we think may be of interest to you in relation to the purchase, rental, sale or let of a property; when you apply for a role with us and/or are successful; where it is necessary for us to comply with our legal obligations (such as anti-money laundering and estate and letting agency laws, regulations and/or codes of practice) or where it is otherwise lawful for us to do so. We may also process your personal data to help us operate, grow and protect our business, develop our products and services, help improve our efficiencies, manage our client base, provide training, monitor our customer service standards, help resolve disputes and/or to refer you to selected third party mortgage brokers or a conveyancing panel management provider. Examples include network security and monitoring, auditing, call recording (which we also ensure takes place in accordance with the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 by informing callers that the calls may be recorded), training and awareness including compliance, referencing, verification of identity, fraud prevention, risk assessment, utility switches, due diligence, marketing (we may share an encoded version of your email address to third parties such as Facebook and Google to enable these third parties to display Foxtons’ ads when you visit their websites), analytics, debt recovery and other claims, the improvement and optimisation of advertising, providing marketing material and content (including providing you with information about goods or services which we feel may interest you as a result of any previous sale or purchase we have negotiated on your behalf and enabling third parties such as Facebook and Google to display Foxtons ads to you when you use their website) for our website and other applications or platforms through which you interact with us, ensuring that content from our website is presented in the most effective manner for you and your computer, customer support, notifying you about changes to our services and other important notices, managing suppression lists, profiling, cloud storage, when we purchase another business and/or referrals. In some circumstances we may, to protect our entitlement to a commission and to avoid a dispute, disclose your name to another agent, landlord or vendor. Our right to process your personal data falls under one of the following legal bases: your consent (Article 6(1)(a) GDPR); where we are performing our obligations under a contract with you (Article 6(1)(b) GDPR); where we are under a legal obligation (Article 6(1)(c) GDPR); where the processing is in our legitimate business interests (Article 6(1)(f) GDPR). The following additional grounds may also apply where we process special category data: where you provide explicit consent (Article 9(2)(a) GDPR); where you had already made the personal data publicly available (Article 9(2)(e) GDPR); to establish, exercise or defend a legal claim (Article 9(2)(f) GDPR). Cookies The Foxtons website and applications may automatically collect data about how you use our services in order to help us improve future functionality of our website and to assist with advertising and targeting. We use Google Analytics, which is a web analysis service provided by Google. The cookies on the Foxtons website do not track, collect or upload data such as your name, email address or billing information, but it may collect data about your equipment and browsing activities. We may collect and report on the adoption and usage of specific features, crashes and exceptions and other useful, anonymous metrics. Certain devices can detect your approximate location, via latitude and longitude. The accuracy of this data is not in the control of Foxtons. If this feature is requested, Foxtons will prompt you to provide your permission to access your location data for the purposes of providing you with results or directions based on your current location. You can disable location settings within your browser or app. To read more about our use of cookies on the Foxtons website, please consult our cookie policy . 4. Disclosures of your personal data We may share your personal data with trusted companies outside of the Foxtons Group, such as: to third parties with whom we have a contractual relationship to perform, or assist us in performing the purchase, rental, sale or let of a property; IT and system administration service providers; anti-money laundering verification service providers; tenancy deposit schemes (or deposit replacement service providers); utility switch companies; utility suppliers; trade contractors; survey companies; surveyors, EPC providers, inventory clerks, managing agents, property auctioneers, auction legal pack providers; local authorities and government law enforcement agencies; Government departments (e.g. HM Land Registry); property developers; third party data services who help us to segment and understand our audience so that we can send the most relevant and targeted communications possible; advertisers and advertising networks (including social media) to select and serve relevant Foxtons adverts to you based on the fact that you use that third party network and are a contact of Foxtons; professional advisers including lawyers, bankers, auditors who provide consultancy, banking, legal, insurance and accountancy services and insurers; credit or reference providers (including for the purposes of debt recovery); other agents with whom we have entered into a sub-agency agreement and where they have introduced a potential purchaser/vendor/landlord/tenant for your property; the counterparty to your transaction; property portals through which you request our services; other parties to whom we may choose to sell, transfer, or merge parts of our business or our assets. Where you apply for a role with us we may disclose or share your personal information within the Foxtons Group. 5. Data security We are, through technical and organisational means, committed to ensuring the security of, and prevention of unauthorised access to, your personal data. For example, we limit who can access your personal data to those individuals and third parties who need to know it and who are subject to a duty of confidentiality. We also systematically monitor outbound emails for the purposes of protecting confidential and personal data and assisting in our ability to identify potential data breaches. If we become aware of a data breach we will, where we are required to, notify the Information Commissioner's Office. If we believe that the data breach is serious, we may notify you as well. 6. International transfers We will not transfer your personal data outside of the United Kingdom, except to a country offering the same level of protection for your personal data or to an organisation that commits to abide by the same standards. For example, with certain service providers we may use specific contracts approved by the UK Information Commissioner's Office which ensure that your personal data has the same protection as it would have in the United Kingdom (and you can request a copy of the relevant provisions of these contracts using the contact details below) 7. Data retention We will retain your personal data whilst you use our services (or whilst we provide services connected to you) and/or are in communication with us and for at least seven years thereafter, for legal, regulatory and accounting purposes. If we need to retain your personal data for longer, we will take into consideration the potential risks in continuing to store your data against why we might need to keep it. In some circumstances we might anonymise your personal data so it is not associated with you, and we may then use this information indefinitely. We generally retain call recordings for 30 days but may retain these for longer where necessary, e.g. for investigations or claims. Where you apply for a role with us if your application is unsuccessful, we will retain your personal information for a period of 6 months after we have informed you of our decision so that we can show that we have not discriminated against candidates on prohibited grounds. We will retain your personal data on our file for a further period of 18 months after we have informed you of our decision so that we can consider you for future Foxtons vacancies. If you would prefer we did not, please email us at [email protected] 8. Your legal rights To the extent provided by law, you have the right to: access a copy of the personal data that we hold and process about you. You have rights to the following information, subject to certain exemptions: the purpose(s) for which we are processing your information; the categories of personal information we hold about you the recipients or categories of recipient to whom the personal data have been or will be disclosed; the period for which we will store your information, or the criteria used to determine that period; object to the use of your personal data (including for marketing purposes) by informing a Foxtons telephone operator; or by ticking the relevant boxes on the data collection forms; or by logging into your ‘myfoxtons’ account (if you have one) and checking or unchecking relevant boxes to adjust your marketing preferences; or by emailing [email protected] rectification of any inaccurate information we hold about you; erasure of the personal data we hold about you; ask that we do not make decisions about you using completely automated means; and/or ask that personal data we hold about you is, where technically feasible, transmitted to a third-party chosen by you, in a commonly used, machine-readable format. Please note that even if you refuse marketing, we will still contact you to discuss the services you have asked us to provide to you or to tell you about changes to our terms and conditions. The rights listed above may not apply in certain circumstances. Therefore we may not always be able to comply with your request. We will tell you if this is the case. We will usually respond to a request from you to exercise your rights within one month of receipt, but it might take longer if your request is particularly complex or if you have made a number of requests. We may need to request specific information from you to help us confirm your identity and ensure your right to access your personal data (or to exercise any of your other rights). This is a security measure to ensure that personal data is not disclosed to any person who has no right to receive it. We may also contact you to ask you for further information in relation to your request to speed up our response. Generally, you do not have to pay a fee to exercise these rights, but you may have to pay a fee if your request is unfounded, repetitive or excessive. Alternatively, we may refuse to comply with your request. Marketing You have the right to withdraw your consent for us to use your personal data for marketing purposes at any time. You can withdraw such consent by: Logging into your 'myfoxtons' account (if you have one) and checking or unchecking relevant boxes to adjust your marketing preferences; following the opt-out links on any marketing message sent to you; or contacting us by emailing [email protected] or by calling 020 7893 6000. We will still process your personal data in order to fulfil our contract with you and in accordance with our legal, accountancy and regulatory obligations. If you withdraw your consent, your previous consent will remain valid in respect of our use of your data until you withdrew your consent. Third-party marketing We will get your express opt-in consent before we share your personal data with any company outside the Foxtons Group of companies to enable those third parties to send you direct email messages regarding their products and/or services for marketing purposes. If you no longer wish to be contacted by any such third parties for marketing purposes, please follow the instructions in their marketing communications, or consult their privacy policies about how to unsubscribe. 9. How to contact us To contact us about how we handle your personal data, please contact our Data Protection Officer at [email protected] . Alternatively, write to us at Data Protection Officer, Foxtons Limited, Building One, Chiswick Park, 566 Chiswick High Road, London, W4 5BE. If you have a complaint about the way in which your personal data has been processed, you have the right to contact the Information Commissioner's Office but we would suggest that you first complete our internal complaints procedure and we will try to address your concerns. Anti-Money Laundering Foxtons is committed to operating its business in a transparent and open manner consistent with our legal and regulatory obligations. We are aware that the real estate industry is a target for organised criminals seeking to launder the proceeds of criminal activity. We always seek to prevent this activity by cooperating fully with the authorities and reporting suspicious activity to the National Crime Agency. As part of this commitment, we adopt a strict compliance of all Anti-Money Laundering rules, with specific emphasis on the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, the Money Laundering Regulations 2017, the Bribery Act 2010 and the Terrorism Act 2000. Foxtons policy commitment is applicable to all of our customers, including vendors, buyers, landlords and tenants. As a result we obtain and hold for a period of at least seven years evidence pertaining to our customers' identity and, where appropriate, we obtain proof of ownership of property and source/destination of funds. We will be unable to proceed with any work on behalf of our customers if we are unable to obtain this information. Customers' identity will be subject to an electronic identity check, which may also include a credit check For a full list of acceptable identity documents, please click here We are registered and supervised by HM Revenue & Customs for compliance with the Money Laundering Regulations 2017.If you would like to speak to us about Anti-Money Laundering, please email [email protected] Indemnity You acknowledge that you are solely responsible for the use to which you put this website and all the results and information you obtain from it and that all warranties, conditions, undertakings, representations and terms whether expressed or implied, statutory or otherwise are hereby excluded to the fullest extent permitted by law. Save in respect of liability for death or personal injury arising out of negligence or for fraudulent misrepresentation, we and all contributors to this website hereby disclaim to the fullest extent permitted by law all liability for any loss or damage including any consequential or indirect loss or damage incurred by you, whether arising in tort, contract or otherwise, and arising out of or in relation to or in connection with your access to or use of or inability to use this website. Whilst we take every care to ensure that the standard of this website remains high and to maintain the continuity of it, we do not accept any ongoing obligation or responsibility to operate this website (or any particular part of it). If any part of our terms and conditions is deemed to be unenforceable (including any provision in which we exclude our liability to you) the enforceability of any other part of these conditions will not be affected. These terms and conditions and your use of this website are governed exclusively by English law. This does not affect your statutory rights as a consumer. Foxtons Limited is registered in England and Wales (registered number 01680058). Our registered office is at Building One, Chiswick Park, 566 Chiswick High Road, London, W4 5BE. We value your privacy We use necessary cookies to make our website work and we'd like to use other cookies to give you the most relevant experience. Click “Accept all” to agree to all cookies, or for more options click on “Change Settings”. For more information see our cookie policy Accept All Change Settings Privacy and Cookies Policy Introduction Strictly necessary Functionality cookies Performance cookies Performance cookies Performance cookies let us collect information about how the website is used. For example, we may record what pages are visited most. This data allows us to see where we could optimise the website and make it more efficient. Foxtons: tbp, twp2, tws. tco, referrer Foxtons uses performance cookies to help understand how our visitors use the website and how we can improve our website. We also host the following third-party solutions, which may set the following cookies: Google Analytics: _ga, _gat, _gat_UA-<TOKEN>, utmx, utmxx Google Analytics cookies are used to distinguish users and sessions and gather usage data related to your visit to our website so we can improve our website. AddThis: _atssc, _atuvc, _atuvs, _ Some pages may have the AddThis social plugin to allow you to share pages to your social network and for Foxtons to view reports on which pages were shared and how. Crazyegg: _ceir, is_returning, _CEFT, _ceg.s, _ceg.u, s, u, cer.s, cer.v Crazyegg is a third-party optimisation solution which helps us to test, analyse and improve each user's experience on the website based on their online behaviour. Functionality cookies Functionality cookies allow the website to remember settings such as the screen size, which lets us serve the right content without overloading any network or device capacity. mortgage - Stores your mortgage settings for use across the website. recent - Stores information of the last pages you have viewed. screen - Stores the screen size of the device that you are viewing our website on. This allows us to serve the right content for the device you are using without overloading your network and preserving best layout. Strictly necessary cookies Strictly necessary cookies allow you to log into your account and view account details without a need to log in again every time you navigate to subsequent page. These cannot be disabled. foxtons_session - Stores information about whether you are logged in into your account or not. visit_secure_token2 (session) - Stores information necessary to access your account. cookie_policy_displayed - Stores information about the cookie policy declaration. search - Stores your preferences as to how you prefer your results to be displayed i.e display 10 properties per page and price filter ‘from highest to lowest'. is_logged_in - Recognize when a user is logged in, to allow access to restricted areas of the site. What are cookies? To make your experience visiting the Foxtons website as simple and convenient as possible we place small data files known as "cookies" on your computer. This practice is used by many websites. Cookies are created when your browser loads the website. The website sends information to the browser which then creates a text file. Cookies are stored on your device for various periods of time, from as short time as the duration of your browsing session to several months. Every time you come back to the website, the browser retrieves and sends cookies to the server, which helps to improve your experience of the website by: Remembering settings, so you don't have to re-enter them every time you visit Remembering your last properties and searches, helping you to keep on top of new listings Measuring use of the website so that we can see where we can improve You can manage and/or delete these small files from your device, but please be aware that this will limit the functionality that we are able to offer to you. Allow all cookies Save preferences Find your next home Search Unlock the true value of your home Get a valuation Lettings & Property Management New to Foxtons? Instruct us Existing customers Login to My Foxtons Explore news articles, area guides and interior design trends Setting the standard in estate agency We combine best-in-class people and technology to set the standard for service in estate agency Find your nearest office Find your nearest office Our Services Setting the standard in estate agency First time buyers How much can I borrow? Guide to buying Moving home How much is my home worth? Register with Foxtons Find a property New Homes availability Asia Pacific Help for buyers Advantages of choosing Foxtons Mortgages Conveyancing Stamp Duty calculator Why buy a new build? Property Surveys and Lease Extensions Our services Sell your home Foxtons Private Office How much is your home worth? Book a valuation appointment Help Help & Guides Contact us Rental searches Lettings Short lets Corporate relocation Student accommodation Tenant advice Guide to renting Right to Rent Why use Foxtons? Area guides Your tenancy Register with Foxtons My tenancy in My Foxtons Fees & terms Tenant support Our services Find tenants Property Management Specialist services Short lets Help being a landlord Help & Guides Buy to Let Mortgages Property inspiration Blog Interior Design Local life Area guides Schools Let's get social Facebook Twitter Instagram Our company About us Our history Investor Relations Careers Inside Foxtons News from Foxtons Foxtons' Minis Testimonials Social Media Community Community Environment People Our services Register to find a new home Valuation New Homes Corporate Relocations Customer services Opening hours Existing Lettings Feedback Complaints Internal enquiries Press Reports Recruitment Investor Relations All other enquiries Buying and Selling Buying New Homes Selling Landlords and Renting Landlords Property Management Renters Short lets Specialist Services B2R & Institutional PRS Foxtons Private Office Corporate relocation Asia Pacific About Foxtons About Foxtons Estate Agent Sales jobs in London Property Management in London Tenancy FAQs Mobile apps Branch Finder Our estate agencies Central London estate agents East London estate agents North London estate agents South London estate agents Surrey estate agents West London estate agents Popular searches London property for sale London lettings London short lets New Homes in London Property intelligence Area guides House price reports Rental reports Home valuation service © Foxtons Estate Agents Investors Terms and Conditions & Privacy Policy Cookies Policy Sitemap