Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Biography Toggle Biography subsection 1.1 Birth 1.2 Upbringing 1.3 First duel 1.4 Travels and duels 1.4.1 Duel with Sasaki Kojirō 1.5 Later life 2 Relationships 3 Teachings 4 Timeline 5 Philosophy Toggle Philosophy subsection 5.1 Way of strategy 5.1.1 Ni-Ten Ichi Ryu 5.2 Religion 6 As an artist 7 In Japanese and global culture Toggle In Japanese and global culture subsection 7.1 Miyamoto Musashi Budokan 7.2 In popular culture 8 Gallery 9 Bibliography 10 See also 11 References 12 Further reading Toggle Further reading subsection 12.1 Fiction 12.2 Children's books 12.3 Essays 12.4 Testimony 13 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Miyamoto Musashi 68 languages العربية Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه বাংলা Bân-lâm-gú Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца) Български བོད་ཡིག Brezhoneg Català Cebuano Čeština Chavacano de Zamboanga Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Хальмг 한국어 Hrvatski Bahasa Hulontalo Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Italiano עברית Jawa Қазақша Кыргызча Latina Lietuvių Magyar Malagasy مصرى Nederlands 日本語 Occitan Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча Polski Português Română Русский Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina Soomaaliga کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska Tagalog ไทย Türkçe Türkmençe Українська Tiếng Việt Walon Winaray 吴语 Yorùbá 粵語 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiquote From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Japanese swordsman, philosopher, strategist, writer, artist, and rōnin In this Japanese name , the surname is Miyamoto . Miyamoto Musashi Contemporaneous portrait of Miyamoto Musashi (Edo period) Born Shinmen Bennosuke c. 1584 Harima Province or Mimasaka Province , Japan Died 13 June 1645 (1645-06-13) (aged 60–61) Higo Province , Japan Native name 宮本武蔵 Other names Niten Dōraku; Shinmen Musashi no Kami Fujiwara no Harunobu Residence Japan Style Hyōhō Niten Ichi-ryū Kenjutsu (二天一流), Enmei-ryu (圓明流), (二天流) Children Mikinosuke (adopted) Kurōtarō (adopted) Iori (adopted) Yoemon (adopted) Daughter of unknown name Notable students Takemura Yoemon ; Terao Magonojō ; Terao Motomenosuke ; Furuhashi Sōzaemon Japanese name Kanji 宮本 武蔵 Hiragana みやもと むさし Katakana ミヤモト ムサシ Transcriptions Romanization Miyamoto Musashi Miyamoto Musashi ( 宮本 武蔵 , c. 1584 – 13 June 1645) , [1] also known as Shinmen Takezō , Miyamoto Bennosuke or, by his Buddhist name , Niten Dōraku , [2] was a Japanese swordsman , philosopher, strategist, writer and rōnin , who became renowned through stories of his unique double-bladed swordsmanship and undefeated record in his 61 duels (next is 33 by Itō Ittōsai ). Musashi, as he was often simply known, is considered a Kensei , a sword-saint of Japan. [3] He was the founder of the Niten Ichi-ryū , or Nito Ichi-ryū, style of swordsmanship, and in his final years authored The Book of Five Rings ( 五輪の書 , Go Rin No Sho ) and Dokkōdō (獨行道, The Path of Aloneness ). Both documents were given to Terao Magonojō , the most important of Musashi's students, seven days before Musashi's death. The Book of Five Rings deals primarily with the character of his Niten Ichi-ryū school in a concrete sense, i.e., his own practical martial art and its generic significance; The Path of Aloneness , on the other hand, deals with the ideas that lie behind it, as well as his life's philosophy in a few short aphoristic sentences. The Miyamoto Musashi Budokan training center, located in Ōhara-chō ( Mimasaka ), Okayama prefecture , Japan was erected to honor his name and legend. The Miyamoto Musashi Budokan in Ōhara-chō ( Mimasaka ), Okayama prefecture , Japan [4] Biography [ edit ] Birth [ edit ] The details of Miyamoto Musashi's early life are difficult to verify. Musashi himself simply states in The Book of Five Rings that he was born in Harima Province . [5] Niten Ki (an early biography of Musashi) supports the assertion that Musashi was born in 1584: "[He] was born in Banshū , in Tenshō 12 [1584], the Year of the Monkey." [6] The historian Kamiko Tadashi, commenting on Musashi's text, notes: "Munisai was Musashi's father ... he lived in Miyamoto village, in the Yoshino district [of Mimasaka Province ]. Musashi was most probably born here." [7] Musashi gives his full name and title in The Book of Five Rings as Shinmen Musashi-no-Kami Fujiwara no Harunobu (新免武蔵守藤原玄信). [8] His father, Shinmen Munisai (新免無二斎) was an accomplished martial artist and master of the sword and jutte (also jitte ). [7] Munisai, in turn, was the son of Hirata Shōgen (平田将監), a vassal of Shinmen Iga no Kami , the lord of Takayama Castle in the Yoshino district of Mimasaka Province. [9] Hirata was relied upon by Lord Shinmen and so was allowed to use the Shinmen name. As for "Musashi", Musashi no Kami was a court title, making him the nominal governor of Musashi Province. " Fujiwara " was the lineage from which Musashi claimed descent. [10] Upbringing [ edit ] Musashi's eczema developed in his infancy, and this adversely affected his appearance. [11] Another story claims that he never took a bath because he did not want to be surprised unarmed. [12] First duel [ edit ] I have trained in the way of strategy since my youth, and at the age of thirteen I fought a duel for the first time. My opponent was called Arima Kihei, a sword adept of the Shinto ryū, and I defeated him. At the age of sixteen I defeated a powerful adept by the name of Tadashima Akiyama , who came from Tajima Province . At the age of twenty-one I went up to Kyōtō and fought duels with several adepts of the sword from famous schools, but I never lost. — Miyamoto Musashi, Go Rin No Sho According to the introduction of The Book of Five Rings , Musashi states that his first successful duel was at the age of 13, against a samurai named Arima Kihei who fought using the Kashima Shintō-ryū style, founded by Tsukahara Bokuden (1489–1571). The main source of the duel is the Hyoho senshi denki ("Anecdotes about the Deceased Master"). Summarized, its account goes as follows: In 1596, Musashi was 13, and Arima Kihei, who was traveling to hone his art, posted a public challenge in Hirafuku-mura. Musashi wrote his name on the challenge. A messenger came to Dorin's temple, where Musashi was staying, to inform Musashi that his duel had been accepted by Kihei. Dorin, Musashi's uncle, was shocked by this, and tried to beg off the duel in Musashi's name, based on his nephew's age. Kihei was adamant that the only way his honour could be cleared was if Musashi apologized to him when the duel was scheduled. So when the time set for the duel arrived, Dorin began apologizing for Musashi, who merely charged at Kihei with a six-foot quarterstaff , shouting a challenge to Kihei. Kihei attacked with a wakizashi , but Musashi threw Kihei on the floor, and while Kihei tried to get up, Musashi struck Arima between the eyes and then beat him to death. Arima was said to have been arrogant, overly eager to battle, and not a terribly talented swordsman. — William Scott Wilson , The Lone Samurai [13] Travels and duels [ edit ] In 1599, Musashi left his village, apparently at the age of 15 (according to the Tosakushi , "The Registry of the Sakushu Region", although the Tanji Hokin Hikki says he was 16 years old in 1599, which agrees time-wise with the age reported in Musashi's first duel). [14] His family possessions such as furniture, weapons, genealogy, and other records were left with his sister and her husband, Hirao Yoemon. He spent his time traveling and engaging in duels . Duel with Sasaki Kojirō [ edit ] See also: Sasaki Kojirō Sasaki Kojiro (right) engages Miyamoto Musashi on the shores of Ganryū Island. In 1611, Musashi began practicing zazen at the Myōshin-ji temple, where he met Nagaoka Sado , vassal to Hosokawa Tadaoki ; Tadaoki was a powerful lord who had received the Kumamoto Domain in west-central Kyūshū after the Battle of Sekigahara . Munisai had moved to northern Kyūshū and became Tadaoki's teacher, leading to the possibility that Munisai introduced Musashi to Sasaki Kojirō, another guest of the Hosokawa clan at the time. Somehow, a duel was proposed between the two; in some versions, Nagaoka proposed the duel, in others, Kojirō proposed it out of rivalry or jealously. Tokitsu believes that the duel was politically motivated, as a matter of consolidating Tadaoki's control over his fief. The duel was scheduled for April 13, 1612, when Musashi was approximately 30 years old. The departure by boat for the duel was arranged for the Hour of the Dragon in the early morning (approximately 8:00 AM) to the island of Ganryūjima , a small isle between Honshū and Kyūshū . While Hosokawa officials banned spectators, the island was filled with them anyway. Kojirō was known for wielding an oversized nodachi (Japanese greatsword) called a "laundry-drying pole" for its length, as well as being titled "three- shaku silver blade" (「三尺の白刃」). Using this sword, Kojirō was said to be known for a swift two-stroke sword technique called tsubame gaeshi (not to confuse with the judo move of the same name, which received the name as an homage), and he bore the nickname "The Demon of the Western Provinces". Kojirō arrived at the appointed time, but was then left to wait for hours; Musashi had overslept. Kojirō sent out servants to retrieve Musashi, who ate a full breakfast, taking his time. In some variants of the tale, Musashi intentionally arrives late as a sign of disrespect. As he sailed over the Kanmon Straits , Musashi carved a crude oversized bokken from one of the ship's oars with his knife, making an improvised wooden sword, possibly to help wake himself up. Upon his arrival, an irritated Kojirō chided Musashi's lateness and dramatically threw his scabbard into the sea, as a sign that he would not stop and would fight to the death. Musashi responded with a taunt of his own, saying that Kojirō clearly wasn't confident in himself if he thought he'd never get a chance to use a fine scabbard again. [15] [16] The two circled each other, and Kojirō leaped toward Musashi with his trademark overhead strike. Musashi, too, jumped and swung his weapon with a shout, and the two sword strokes met. Musashi's headband fell off, sliced by Kojirō's sword, but somehow, only the headband was cut rather than Musashi's skull. Musashi's strike, meanwhile, had struck true, cleaving Kojirō's skull. [15] "Seishin Chokudo" (earnest heart, straight way) monument dedicated to Miyamoto Musashi, located in Kokura . These characters were engraved by Musashi on his bokken. It stands on the place where Musashi is supposed to have lived, at the foot of the castle. The Hombu dojo of a main branch of Hyoho Niten Ichi-ryū is in Kokura and demonstrates every year in front of this monument. Later life [ edit ] Miyamoto Musashi, Self-portrait , c. 1640 Twenty-one years later, in 1633, Musashi began staying with Hosokawa Tadatoshi , daimyō of Kumamoto Castle , who had moved to the Kumamoto fief and Kokura, to train and paint. [17] While he engaged in very few duels; one would occur in 1634 at the arrangement of Lord Ogasawara, in which Musashi defeated a lance specialist by the name of Takada Matabei . Musashi would officially become the retainer of the Hosokowa lords of Kumamoto in 1640. The Niten Ki records "[he] received from Lord Tadatoshi: 17 retainers, a stipend of 300 koku , the rank of ōkumigashira 大組頭, and Chiba Castle in Kumamoto as his residence." [18] Miyamoto Musashi's grave in Ōhara-chō , province of Mimasaka [19] The grave-marker of Miyamoto Musashi, in present-day Kumamoto Prefecture (熊本県) Miyamoto Musashi kills a shark fish (Yamazame) in the mountains across the border of Echizen Province , by Utagawa Kuniyoshi Miyamoto Musashi in his prime, wielding two bokken ; woodblock print by Utagawa Kuniyoshi In the second month of 1641, Musashi wrote a work called the Hyoho Sanju Go ("Thirty-five Instructions on Strategy") for Hosokawa Tadatoshi . This work overlapped and formed the basis for the later The Book of Five Rings . This was the year that his adopted son, Hirao Yoemon , became Master of Arms for the Owari fief. In 1642, Musashi suffered attacks of neuralgia , foreshadowing his future ill-health. In 1643 he retired to a cave named Reigandō as a hermit to write The Book of Five Rings . He finished it in the second month of 1645. On the twelfth of the fifth month, sensing his impending death, Musashi bequeathed his worldly possessions, after giving his manuscript copy of The Book of Five Rings to the younger brother of Terao Magonojo, his closest disciple. He died in Reigandō cave around June 13, 1645 ( Shōhō 2, 19th day of the 5th month ). The Hyoho senshi denki described his passing: At the moment of his death, he had himself raised up. He had his belt tightened and his wakizashi put in it. He seated himself with one knee vertically raised, holding the sword with his left hand and a cane in his right hand. He died in this posture, at the age of sixty-two. The principal vassals of Lord Hosokawa and the other officers gathered, and they painstakingly carried out the ceremony. Then they set up a tomb on Mount Iwato on the order of the lord. Miyamoto Musashi died of what is believed to be thoracic cancer . [20] He died peacefully after finishing the text Dokkōdō ("The Way of Walking Alone", or "The Way of Self-Reliance"), 21 precepts on self-discipline to guide future generations. Relationships [ edit ] Writings on Musashi's life rarely mention his relationship with women, and often when they do Musashi is regularly depicted as rejecting sexual advances in favor of focusing on his swordsmanship. [21] [22] [23] Alternative interpretations have taken his lack of interest as an indication of homosexuality . [24] In contrast many legends do feature Musashi in trysts with women, some of these also reflect the view that he would eventually choose to forego physical or emotional investments to attain further insight into his work. [25] This predominant cultural view of Musashi is somewhat contradicted by old texts such as Dobo goen (1720) which relay his intimacy with the courtesan Kumoi during his middle age. [26] The Bushu Denraiki also details Musashi fathering a daughter by a courtesan. It is uncertain if this courtesan and Kumoi were the same person. [21] A rumor also connected Musashi with the oiran Yoshino Tayu [ Ja ] . [27] Teachings [ edit ] Musashi created and refined a two-sword kenjutsu technique called niten'ichi (二天一, "two heavens as one") or nitōichi (二刀一, "two swords as one") or ' Niten Ichi-ryū ' (A Kongen Buddhist Sutra refers to the two heavens as the two guardians of Buddha ). In this technique, the swordsman uses both a large sword, and a "companion sword" at the same time, i.e. a katana with a wakizashi . [28] The two-handed movements of temple drummers may have inspired him, although it could be that the technique was forged through Musashi's combat experience. Jutte techniques were taught to him by his father—the jutte was often used in battle paired with a sword; the jutte would parry and neutralize the weapon of the enemy while the sword struck or the practitioner grappled with the enemy. Today Musashi's style of swordsmanship is known as Hyōhō Niten Ichi-ryū . [29] Musashi was also an expert in throwing weapons. He frequently threw his short sword, and Kenji Tokitsu believes that shuriken methods for the wakizashi were the Niten Ichi Ryu's secret techniques. [30] Musashi spent many years studying Buddhism and swordsmanship. He was an accomplished artist, sculptor, and calligrapher. Records also show that he had architectural skills. Also, he seems to have had a rather straightforward approach to combat, with no additional frills or aesthetic considerations. This was probably due to his real-life combat experience; although in his later life, Musashi followed a more artistic approach. He made various Zen brush paintings, calligraphy , and sculpted wood and metal. Even in The Book of Five Rings he emphasizes that samurai should understand other professions as well. Musashi's writings were very ambiguous, and translating them into English makes them even more so; thus many different translations of The Book of Five Rings can be found. Timeline [ edit ] The following timeline follows, in chronological order (of which is based on the most accurate and most widely accepted information), the life of Miyamoto Musashi. Date Age Occurrence 1578 −6 Musashi's brother, Shirota, is born. 1584 0 Miyamoto Musashi is born. 1591 6–7 Musashi is taken and raised by his uncle as a Buddhist . 1596 11–12 Musashi duels with Arima Kihei in Hirafuku, Hyōgo Prefecture . 1599 14–15 Duels with a man named Tadashima Akiyama in the northern part of Hyōgo Prefecture . 1600 16 Believed to have fought in the Battle of Sekigahara (October 21) as part of the western army. Whether he actually participated in the battle is currently in doubt. 1604 19–20 Musashi has three matches with the Yoshioka clan in Kyoto . (1) Match with Yoshioka Seijuro in Yamashiro Province , outside the city at Rendai Moor (west of Mt. Funaoka, Kita-ku, Kyoto ). (2) Match with Yoshioka Denshichiro outside the city. (3) Match with Yoshioka Matashichiro outside the city at the pine of Ichijō-ji . Visits Kōfuku-ji , Nara and ends up dueling with Okuzōin Dōei, the Buddhist priest trained in the style of Hōzōin-ryū . [31] 1605–1612 20–28 Begins to travel again. 1607 22–23 Munisai (Musashi's father) passes his teachings onto Musashi. Duels with the kusarigama expert Shishido (swordsman) in the western part of Mie Prefecture . 1608 23–24 Duels Musō Gonnosuke , master of the five-foot staff in Edo . 1610 25–26 Fights Hayashi Osedo and Tsujikaze Tenma in Edo . 1611 26–27 Begins practicing zazen meditation . 1612 28 Duel with Sasaki Kojirō takes place on April 13, on Ganryujima (Ganryu or Funa Island) off the coast of Shimonoseki in which Kojiro is defeated. Briefly opens a fencing school. 1614–1615 30–31 Believed to have joined the troops of Toyotomi Hideyori in the Winter and Summer campaigns (November 8, 1614 – June 15, 1615) at Osaka Castle , but no significant contributions are documented. 1615–1621 30–37 Comes into the service of Ogasawara Tadanao in Harima Province as a construction supervisor. 1621 36–37 Duels Miyake Gunbei in Tatsuno, Hyōgo . 1622 37–38 Sets up temporary residence at the castle town of Himeji, Hyōgo . 1623 38–39 Travels to Edo . Adopts a son named Iori . 1626 41–42 Adopted son Mikinosuke commits seppuku following in the tradition of Junshi . 1627 42–43 Travels again. 1628 43–44 Meets with Yagyū Hyōgonosuke in Nagoya , Owari Province . 1630 45–46 Enters the service of Lord Hosokawa Tadatoshi . 1633 48–49 Begins to extensively practice the arts. 1634 49–50 Settles in Kokura , Fukuoka Prefecture for a short time with son Iori as a guest of Ogasawara Tadazane . 1637–1638 53–54 Serves a major role in the Shimabara Rebellion (December 17, 1637 – April 15, 1638) and is the only documented evidence that Musashi served in battle. Was knocked off his horse by a rock thrown by one of the peasants. 1641 56–57 Writes Hyoho Sanju-go . 1642 57–58 Suffers severe attacks from neuralgia . 1643 58–59 Migrates into Reigandō where he lives as a hermit . 1645 61 Finishes Go Rin No Sho / The Book of Five Rings . Dies from what is believed to be lung cancer. Philosophy [ edit ] Calligraphy by Musashi In Musashi's last book, The Book of Five Rings ( 五輪書 , Go Rin no Sho ) , Musashi seems to take a very philosophical approach to looking at the "craft of war": "There are five ways in which men pass through life: as gentlemen, warriors, farmers, artisans and merchants." Throughout the book, Musashi implies that the way of the Warrior, as well as the meaning of a "true strategist" is that of somebody who has made mastery of many art forms away from that of the sword, such as tea drinking ( sadō ), laboring, writing, and painting, as Musashi practiced throughout his life. [32] Musashi was hailed as an extraordinary sumi-e artist in the use of ink monochrome as depicted in two such paintings: "Shrike Perched in a Dead Tree" ( Koboku Meigekizu , 枯木鳴鵙図) and "Wild Geese Among Reeds" ( Rozanzu , 魯山図). Going back to the Book of Five Rings , Musashi talks deeply about the ways of Buddhism. He makes particular note of artisans and foremen . When he wrote the book, the majority of houses in Japan were made of wood. In the use of building a house, foremen have to employ strategy based upon the skill and ability of their workers. In comparison to warriors and soldiers, Musashi notes the ways in which the artisans thrive through events; the ruin of houses, the splendor of houses, the style of the house, the tradition and name or origins of a house. These too, are similar to the events which are seen to have warriors and soldiers thrive; the rise and fall of prefectures, countries and other such events are what make uses for warriors, as well as the literal comparisons: "The carpenter uses a master plan of the building, and the way of strategy is similar in that there is a plan of campaign". Way of strategy [ edit ] Ni-Ten Ichi Ryu [ edit ] Main article: Niten Ichi-ryū Within the book, Musashi mentions that the use of two swords within strategy is equally beneficial to those who use the skill for individual duels or large engagements. The idea of using two hands for a sword is an idea that Musashi opposes because there is no fluidity in movement with two hands: "If you hold a sword with both hands, it is difficult to wield it freely to left and right, so my method is to carry the sword in one hand." He also disagrees with the idea of using a sword with two hands on a horse and/or riding on unstable terrain, such as muddy swamps, rice fields, or within crowds of people. To learn the strategy of Ni-Ten Ichi Ryū, Musashi asserts that by training with two long swords, one in each hand, one will be able to overcome the cumbersome nature of using a sword in both hands. Although it is difficult, Musashi agrees that there are times in which the long sword must be used with two hands, but one whose skill is good enough should not need it. After using two long swords proficiently enough, mastery of a long sword, and a "companion sword", most likely a wakizashi, will be much increased: "When you become used to wielding the long sword, you will gain the power of the Way and wield the sword well." In short, it could be seen, from the excerpts from The Book of Five Rings , that real strategy behind Ni-Ten No Ichi Ryu, is that there is no real iron-clad method, path, or type of weaponry specific to the style of Ni-Ten No Ichi Ryu: You can win with a long weapon, and yet you can also win with a short weapon. In short, the Way of the Ichi school is the spirit of winning, whatever the weapon and whatever its size. Religion [ edit ] Even from an early age, Musashi separated his religion from his involvement in swordsmanship. Excerpts such as the one below, from The Book of Five Rings , demonstrate a philosophy that is thought to have stayed with him throughout his life: There are many ways: Confucianism, Buddhism, the ways of elegance, rice-planting, or dance; these things are not to be found in the way of the warrior. [33] However, the belief that Musashi disliked Shinto is inaccurate, as he criticises the Shintō-ryū style of swordsmanship, not Shinto, the religion. In Musashi's Dokkōdō , his stance on religion is further elucidated: "Respect Buddha and the gods without counting on their help." [34] As an artist [ edit ] Shrike in a barren tree , by Miyamoto Musashi In his later years, Musashi said in his The Book of Five Rings : "When I apply the principle of strategy to the ways of different arts and crafts, I no longer have need for a teacher in any domain." He proved this by creating recognized masterpieces of calligraphy and classic ink painting . His paintings are characterized by skilled use of ink washes and an economy of brush stroke. He especially mastered the "broken ink" school of landscapes, applying it to other subjects, such as his Kobokumeikakuzu (" Shrike Perched on a Withered Branch"; part of a triptych whose other two members were " Hotei Walking" and "Sparrow on Bamboo"), his Hotei Watching a Cockfight , and his Rozanzu ("Wild Geese Among Reeds"). The Book of Five Rings advocates involvement in calligraphy and other arts as a means of training in the art of war. [35] In Japanese and global culture [ edit ] Miyamoto Musashi Budokan [ edit ] Further information: Miyamoto Musashi Budokan Miyamoto Musashi Budokan located in Ōhara-chō , Mimasaka province where Miyamoto Musashi was born on March 12 of the Tenshō era . Kamidana of the Heiho Niten Ichi Ryu Official School established at the inauguration of the Miyamoto Musashi dojo on March 4, 1999, in Gleizé under the aegis of the Emperor . Miyamoto Musashi's great-grandfather's Jitte , Hirata Sôkan On 20 May 2000, at the initiative of Sensei Tadashi Chihara [36] the Miyamoto Musashi Budokan [37] was inaugurated. [1] It was built in Ōhara-Cho in the province of Mimasaka , the birthplace of the samurai . Inside the building, the life and journey of Miyamoto Musashi are remembered everywhere. Dedicated to martial arts, the Budokan is the source for all of Japan's official traditional saber and kendo schools. Practically, historically and culturally it is a junction for martial disciplines in the heart of traditional Japan dedicated to Musashi. The inauguration of the Miyamoto Musashi Budokan perpetuated the twinning established on March 4, 1999, between the inhabitants of Ōhara-Chō (Japanese province of Mimasaka) and the inhabitants of Gleizé . It was formalized in the presence of Sensei Tadashi Chihara, guarantor and tenth in the lineage of Miyamoto Musashi carrying a mandate from the mayor of Ōhara-Chō, and in the presence of the mayor of Gleizé Élisabeth Lamure . [38] [39] This event was extended during the mandate of the new mayor of Ōhara-Chō Fukuda Yoshiaki, by the official invitation from Japan and the consequent visit of the mayor of Gleizé for the inauguration of the Miyamoto Musashi Budokan on 10 May 2000, in the presence of personalities and Japanese authorities. In popular culture [ edit ] Further information: Miyamoto Musashi in fiction Even in Musashi's time there were fictional texts resembling comic books . It is therefore quite difficult to separate fact from fiction when discussing his life. There have been numerous works of fiction made about or featuring Musashi. Eiji Yoshikawa 's novelization (originally a 1930s daily newspaper serial) has greatly influenced successive fictional depictions (including the manga Vagabond by Takehiko Inoue ) and is often mistaken for a factual account of Musashi's life. In 2012, writer Sean Michael Wilson and Japanese artist Chie Kutsuwada published an attempt at a more historically accurate manga entitled The Book of Five Rings: A Graphic Novel , based on research and translations by William Scott Wilson. The 2008 video game Ryū ga Gotoku Kenzan! was based on his life and personality. He also appeared in the manga Baki-Dou as a revived clone of himself with his real soul intact as one of the strongest fighters in the series, and used his two-sword style in almost every combat in which he was shown. In the video game Overwatch the playable character Genji has a voice line that quotes Musashi: "Mi wo sutetemo myōri wa sutezu" (身を捨てても名利は捨てず), which roughly translates to "You may abandon your body, but you must preserve your honor." The card game Magic: The Gathering has a card based on him, Isshin, Two Heavens as One, named for his two swords as one technique. In Cyberpunk 2077 the character Takemura sends a text message to V that reads "Even should you abandon your body, never abandon your honor. Never stray from the Way. Miyamoto Musashi" This text can only be received after the mission Search and Destroy, if the player saves Takemura. Gallery [ edit ] Statue of Hosokawa Tadatoshi within Suizen-ji Jōju-en Mon of the Hosokawa clan Mon of Miyamoto Musashi born in Ōhara-chō province of Mimasaka [40] Mon of Tokugawa Shogunate Statue of Musashi & Kojiro Battle Bibliography [ edit ] Hyodokyo (The Mirror of the Way of Strategy) Hyoho Sanjugo Kajo (Thirty-five Instructions on Strategy) Hyoho Shijuni Kajo (Forty-two Instructions on Strategy) Dokkōdō (The Way to be Followed Alone) Go Rin No Sho (The Book of Five Rings; a reference to the Five Rings of Zen Buddhism). Translated into English by Victor Harris as A Book of Five Rings , London: Allison & Busby , 1974; Woodstock, New York: The Overlook Press. See also [ edit ] Martial Arts portal Asia portal Japan portal History portal Biography portal Yagyū Munenori Gosho Motoharu Hōjō Akinokami Sasaki Kojiro Takuan Soho Terao Magonojō Eiji Yoshikawa Bizen Mimasaka Ōhara-chō Miyamoto Musashi Budokan Miyamoto Musashi Station Philosophy of war List of military writers References [ edit ] ^ a b Tokitsu, Kenji (1998). Miyamoto Musashi: 17th century Japanese saber master: man and work, myth and reality ; Miyamoto Musashi : maître de sabre japonais du XVIIe siècle : l'homme et l'œuvre, mythe et réalité . Editions désiris. pp. 19, 20. ISBN 978-2907653541 . OCLC 41259596 . ^ Toyota Masataka. "Niten Ki (A Chronicle of Two Heavens)", in Gorin no Sho , ed. Kamiko Tadashi (Tokyo: Tokuma-shoten, 1963), 239. ^ Miyamoto Musashi, trans.S. F. Kaufman (1994), Book Of Five Rings , Tuttle Publishing. ^ "Budokan" . Miyamoto Musashi school . 2009 . Retrieved 12 August 2020 . ^ Miyamoto Musashi. "Go Rin No Sho", in Gorin no Sho , ed. Kamiko Tadashi (Tokyo: Tokuma-shoten, 1963), 13. ^ Toyota, p. 239 ^ a b Miyamoto, p. 18ff. ^ Miyamoto, 13. ^ Miyamoto, p. 17ff. ^ Musashi, Miyamoto (2018). Complete Musashi : the Definitive Translations of the Complete Writings of Miyamoto Musashi—JapanÆs Greatest Samurai . Alexander Bennett. La Vergne: Tuttle Publishing. ISBN 978-1-4629-2027-3 . OCLC 1076236783 . {{ cite book }} : CS1 maint: date and year ( link ) ^ Musashi, Miyamoto (2006). Rosemary Brant (ed.). The Book of Five Rings: the classic text of Samurai sword strategy . New York: Barnes & Noble. ISBN 978-0-7607-8457-0 . Translated by Ashikaga Yoshiharu. ^ Harris, Victor, p. 10, Miyamoto pp. 16ff. The latter footnote by Kamiko reads: "For his entire life, Musashi never took a wife, cut his hair, or entered a bath". ^ William Scott Wilson. (2004). The Lone Samurai . Kodansha International. ISBN 978-4-7700-2942-3 . ^ Kenji Tokitsu (2004). Miyamoto Musashi: His Life and Writings . Shambhala. ^ a b Lowry, Dave (1986). Bokken: Art of the Japanese Sword . Ohara Publications. pp. 21–27. ISBN 978-0-89750-104-0 . ^ Wilson, William Scott (2004). The Lone Samurai: The Life of Miyamoto Musashi . Tokyo: Kodansha International. p. 19. ISBN 978-4770029423 . ^ "Art of Miyamoto Musashi" . Miyamoto Musashi Dojo . 2009 . Retrieved 12 August 2020 . ^ Toyota, p. 250 ^ "宮本武蔵 – Musashi" . Miyamoto Musashi dojo . 2009 . Retrieved 13 August 2020 . ^ Almo, Leif. "Musashi Miyamoto – the Legend" . Kendo.com . Scandnet AB . Retrieved 4 March 2017 . ^ a b K. Groff, David (2016). The Five Rings: Miyamoto Musashi's Art of Strategy . Book Sales. p. 21. ISBN 978-0785834007 . ^ Thomas F., Cleary (2000). Classics of Strategy and Counsel: Thunder in the sky . Shambhala. p. 269. ISBN 978-1570627286 . ^ William Scott, Wilson (2013). The Lone Samurai: The Life of Miyamoto Musashi . Shambhala Publications. p. 78. ISBN 978-1590309872 . ^ Tokitsu, Kenji (2004). Miyamoto Musashi: His Life and Writings . Shambhala. p. 222. ISBN 978-1590300459 . ^ "Miyamoto Musashi" . Nakasendoway . ^ William Scott, Wilson (2013). The Lone Samurai: The Life of Miyamoto Musashi . Shambhala Publications. p. 79. ISBN 978-1590309872 . ^ Downer, Lesley (2002). Women of the Pleasure Quarters: The Secret History of the Geisha . Broadway Books. ISBN 978-0767904902 . ^ Ratti, Oscar; Westbrook, Adele (2011). Secrets of the Samurai: The Martial Arts of Feudal Japan . Tuttle Publishing. p. 241. ISBN 978-1-4629-0254-5 . ^ Niten Institute. "The life of Miyamoto Musashi" . Instituto Cultural Niten . Retrieved 15 January 2019 . ^ Hyakutake-Watkin, Colin; Masayuki, Imai; Norikazu, Iwata. "Hyōhō.com" . Archived from the original on 15 June 2004. ^ Kagita, Chūbei. "The sickle-spear of the Hōzōinryū (7) | SojutsuDE" . www.sojutsu.de . Retrieved 5 May 2021 . {{ cite web }} : CS1 maint: url-status ( link ) First published in the Nara town magazine Ubusuna on 8 July 2009. ^ "Ancient Wisdom for Modern Life: Five Lessons from Miyamoto Musashi's 'Way of the Warrior' – The Objective Standard" . theobjectivestandard.com . 28 May 2020 . Retrieved 8 July 2021 . ^ Miyamoto, p. 57. ^ "獨行道" . Archived from the original on 18 December 2008. ^ Uozumi Takashi (25 July 2019). "Master Swordsman Miyamoto Musashi: The Man Behind The Book of Five Rings" . Nippon.com . Archived from the original on 5 March 2020. ^ "the 10 th, Tadashi Chihara, hyouhou niten ichiryū musashi seitannochi" (PDF) . 11 April 2020. ^ "Dojo Miyamoto Musashi" . www.dojo-miyamoto-musashi.com . ^ "Reportage – Dojo – France3 – Miyamoto Musashi School" . February 1999. ^ "Heiho Niten Ichi Ryu Memorial" . 2018. ^ "Mimasaka. Musashi Miyamoto" . Mémorial Heiho Niten Ichi Ryu . 2018 . Retrieved 12 August 2020 . Further reading [ edit ] Fiction [ edit ] Sean Michael, Wilson (2014). Musashi (A Graphic Novel) . Shambhala. ( Manga / historical fiction ) Sean Michael, Wilson (2012). The Book of Five Rings: a graphic novel . Shambhala. ( Manga / historical fiction ) Inoue, Takehiko (1998). Vagabond . Viz Communications. ( Manga / historical fiction ) Yoshikawa, Eiji (1995). Musashi (reprint ed.). Kodansha International. ISBN 978-4-7700-1957-8 . ( Historical fiction ) Children's books [ edit ] Moore, J.S. (2014). Under the Sun: The Miyamoto Musashi Story . Understanding Apples Press. ISBN 978-1-5028-0491-4 . Essays [ edit ] Tokitsu, Kenji (2004). Miyamoto Musashi: His Life and Writings . Shambhala Publications, Inc. ISBN 978-1-59030-045-9 . Turnbull, Stephen R. (1990). The Lone Samurai and the Martial Arts . London: Arms and Armour Press. ISBN 978-0-85368-967-6 . Wilson, William Scott (2004). The Lone Samurai . Kodansha International. ISBN 978-4-7700-2942-3 . De Lange, William (2010). The Real Musashi: The Bushu denraiki . Floating World Editions. ISBN 978-1-891640-56-8 . De Lange, William (2011). The Real Musashi: The Bukoden . Floating World Editions. ISBN 978-1-891640-60-5 . De Lange, William (2016). The Real Musashi: A Miscellany . Floating World Editions. ISBN 978-1-891640-86-5 . De Lange, William (2014). Miyamoto Musashi: A Life in Arms . Floating World Editions. ISBN 978-1-891640-629 . Testimony [ edit ] Iwami Toshio Harukatsu soke (11th successor to Miyamoto Musashi), "Musashi's teachings – philosophy first: translation in English" , Dragon n°7, January 2005, ed. Mathis ; French original text: L'enseignement de Musashi est d'abord une philosophie Iwami Toshio Harukatsu soke (11th successor to Miyamoto Musashi), "Musashi's principles" , Dragon n°13, January 2006, ed. Mathis; French original text: Les principes de Musashi External links [ edit ] Wikiquote has quotations related to Miyamoto Musashi . Library resources about Miyamoto Musashi Online books Resources in your library Resources in other libraries By Miyamoto Musashi Online books Resources in your library Resources in other libraries miyamotomusashi.eu Miyamoto Musashi Dojo (in French) Some artwork by Miyamoto Musashi ( archive link ) The samurai warrior and Zen Buddhism (website of the Asian Art Museum, San Francisco) Complete texts in English by Miyamoto Musashi Miyamoto Musashi; his Swordsmanship and Book of Five Rings Profile on Shambhala Publications website v t e East Asia Countries and regions China Hong Kong Macau Mainland Japan Ryukyu Mongolia North Korea South Korea Taiwan Ethnic groups Ainu Han subgroups Hui Japanese Yamato Koreans in China in Japan in Sakhalin Manchu Miao Mongolic Mongols in China Khalkha in Mongolia Qiang Ryukyuans Indigenous Taiwanese Tibetans Tujia Uyghurs Yi Zhuang other ethnic groups in China unrecognized historical Culture Age reckoning Architecture‎ Art Chinese Japanese Korean Taiwanese Blepharoplasty Buddhism Calligraphy Cinema Cuisine Cultural sphere Dance Decorative knotwork Dragon Fashion Festivals Gardens Han characters Hip-and-gable roof Languages Literature Mādhyamaka Music Mythology Philosophy Religion Scripts Seal Sino-Xenic pronunciations Surnames Television Typography Ming Imitation Song Gothic Yogācāra Zodiac Environment East Asia Climate Partnership Monsoon Rainy season Flora Economy and Politics China–Japan–South Korea trilateral summit Comprehensive Economic Partnership for East Asia Capitalism East Asia Summit East Asian Bureau of Economic Research East Asian Community Four Asian Tigers Human rights in East Asia Ports Stock exchanges History Archaeology Archaeological cultures Bronze Age Iron Age Former countries Sports China–Japan–Korea Friendship Athletic Meeting East Asian Football Federation East Asian Games East Asian Judo Championships East Asian martial arts East Asian Youth Games EAFF E-1 Football Championship Education Association of East Asian Research Universities CrossAsia East Asian Economic Review East Asia Image Collection East Asia Law Review East Asian studies Journal of East Asian Studies Ludwigshafen East Asia Institute Military Horses in East Asian warfare Miyamoto Musashi Sun Tzu The Art of War The Book of Five Rings Yi Sun-sin Science and technology Needham Research Institute Printing Swords Traditional medicine v t e Prominent people of the Sengoku and Azuchi–Momoyama periods Three major daimyō Oda Nobunaga Toyotomi Hideyoshi Tokugawa Ieyasu Shōgun Ashikaga Yoshiharu Ashikaga Yoshiteru Ashikaga Yoshihide Ashikaga Yoshiaki Tokugawa Hidetada Emperor Go-Kashiwabara Go-Nara Ōgimachi Go-Yōzei Other daimyō Amago Tsunehisa Amago Haruhisa Asakura Yoshikage Ashina Moriuji Akechi Mitsuhide Azai Nagamasa Chōsokabe Motochika Date Terumune Date Masamune Hatakeyama Yoshitaka Hōjō Sōun Hōjō Ujimasa Hōjō Ujiyasu Imagawa Yoshimoto Imagawa Ujizane Isshiki Yoshimichi Itō Yoshisuke Kitabatake Tomonori Kuroda Nagamasa Matsunaga Hisahide Miyoshi Nagayoshi Mogami Yoshiaki Mōri Motonari Ōuchi Yoshitaka Ōuchi Yoshinaga Ōtomo Sōrin Rokkaku Yoshikata Ryūzōji Takanobu Saitō Dōsan Saitō Yoshitatsu Satomi Yoshitaka Sanada Yukitaka Sanada Masayuki Sanada Nobuyuki Satake Yoshishige Sagara Yoshihi Shimazu Yoshihisa Shimazu Yoshihiro Takeda Nobutora Takeda Shingen Uesugi Kagekatsu Uesugi Kenshin Uesugi Norimasa Ukita Naoie Uragami Munekage Yamana Toyokuni Yamana Suketoyo Swordsmen Marume Nagayoshi Hikita Bungorō Kamiizumi Nobutsuna Miyamoto Musashi Sasaki Kojirō Tadashima Akiyama Tsukahara Bokuden Tsutsumi Hōzan Yagyū Munenori Yagyū Munetoshi Shinmen Munisai Itō Ittōsai Advisers and strategists Kuroda Yoshitaka Naoe Kanetsugu Takenaka Shigeharu Usami Sadamitsu Yamamoto Kansuke Ninja , rogues and mercenaries Mochizuki Chiyome Fūma Kotarō Hatsume no Tsubone Hattori Hanzō Ishikawa Goemon Katō Danzō Kirigakure Shikaemon Kōzuki Sasuke Nakamura Chōbei Ohama Kagetaka Saika Magoichi Suzuki Sadayu Suzuki Shigehide Suzuki Shigetomo Suzuki Magoroku Igasaki Dōshun Umemura Sawano Monks and other religious figures Ankokuji Ekei Hongan-ji Kennyo Hon'inbō Sansa Ishin Sūden Jion Koji Kashin Nankōbō Tenkai Rennyo Sessai Chōrō Shimozuma Chūkō Shimozuma Rairen Shimozuma Rairyū Takuan Sōhō Female castellans Akai Teruko Ashikaga Ujihime Chacha Ii Naotora Jukei-ni Miyohime Munakata Saikaku Nene Onamihime Otazu no Kata Otsuya no Kata Seishin-ni Tachibana Ginchiyo Tōshōin Female warriors Fujishiro Gozen Ichikawa no Tsubone Ikeda Sen Kaihime Kamehime Katakura Kita Katō Tsune Komatsuhime Kushihashi Teru Maeda Matsu Myōki Myōrin Numata Jakō Ōhōri Tsuruhime Okaji no Kata Okyō no Kata Omasa Oni Gozen Shigashi Shirai no Tsubone Ueno Tsuruhime Yuki no Kata Other women Lady Acha Asahihime Lady Chaa Chikurin-in Lady Goryū Dota Gozen Gotokuhime Tsumaki Hiroko Lady Hayakawa Hosokawa Gracia Irohahime Izumo no Okuni Lady Kasuga Kitsuno Konoe Sakiko Kōzōsu Kyōgoku Maria Kyōgoku Tatsuko Matsuhime Megohime Lady Myōkyū Naitō Julia Nōhime Odai no Kata Oeyo Oichi Oinu Ohatsu Lady Ōkurakyo Ōmandokoro Ono Otsū Ōtomo-Nata Jezebel Rikei Lady Saigō Lady Sanjō Seikōin Senhime Sentōin Tobai-in Toyotomi Sadako Tomo Lady Toida Tokuhime Lady Tsukiyama Yamauchi Chiyo Yoshihime Foreign people in Japan William Adams Gaspar Coelho Luís Fróis Jan Joosten van Lodensteijn Julia Ota Soga Seikan Wakita Naokata Wang Zhi Francis Xavier Yasuke See also List of samurai from the Sengoku period Authority control International FAST ISNI VIAF WorldCat National Norway Spain France BnF data Catalonia Germany Israel Finland United States Sweden Latvia Japan Czech Republic Greece Korea Netherlands Poland Portugal Academics CiNii Artists ULAN People Deutsche Biographie Trove Other IdRef Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Miyamoto_Musashi&oldid=1159711180 " Categories : Miyamoto Musashi 1580s births 1645 deaths 17th-century Japanese calligraphers 17th-century philosophers Artist authors Japanese Buddhists Japanese duelists Japanese non-fiction writers Japanese painters Japanese philosophers Japanese swordfighters Kendo Martial arts school founders Martial arts writers Samurai Hidden categories: CS1 maint: date and year CS1 maint: url-status Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use British English from January 2019 Use dmy dates from January 2019 Articles containing Japanese-language text Articles with French-language sources (fr) Articles with FAST identifiers Articles with ISNI identifiers Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with WorldCat identifiers Articles with BIBSYS identifiers Articles with BNE identifiers Articles with BNF identifiers Articles with BNFdata identifiers Articles with CANTICN identifiers Articles with GND identifiers Articles with J9U identifiers Articles with KANTO identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Articles with Libris identifiers Articles with LNB identifiers Articles with NDL identifiers Articles with NKC identifiers Articles with NLG identifiers Articles with NLK identifiers Articles with NTA identifiers Articles with PLWABN identifiers Articles with PortugalA identifiers Articles with CINII identifiers Articles with ULAN identifiers Articles with DTBIO identifiers Articles with Trove identifiers Articles with SUDOC identifiers Year of birth uncertain This page was last edited on 12 June 2023, at 02:18 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement Toggle limited content width