! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Property guides Toggle search Guides for: Buyers Sellers Renters Landlords Students Energy efficiency Safety and Security Accessibility Safety and Security Buyers Sellers Renters Landlords Students Energy efficiency Safety and Security Accessibility Rightmove Safety and Security Centre Ensure your online experience stays a happy one How Rightmove helps you find your next home Rightmove is the UK’s number one property platform, advertising over one million properties for sale and to rent on behalf of our customers, who are estate and letting agents, new homes developers, commercial property agents, and overseas agents and overseas property owners, who pay to advertise their properties across our website and apps. We want to help you find your next home and we want to make sure you can do so safely and securely. This is why we carry out checks on all of our customers before we allow them to advertise on Rightmove. Additionally, all agents who advertise on Rightmove need to be registered with a redress scheme that has been approved by the government. A redress scheme is an independent organisation that works to resolve disputes between estate agents and consumers. The two schemes are The Property Ombudsman and the Property Redress Scheme; you can check this by searching for their members on the redress scheme website. TIP: You can search for all agents and property professionals that advertise their properties for sale or rent on Rightmove here . Rightmove is not an estate agent Rightmove is not an estate agent, but instead the place where tens of thousands of property professionals choose to market their properties. If you ever come across a property advert on another website, or platform, that says it is being marketed by a company using the ‘ Rightmove ‘ name (for example, Rightmove Estate Agents), then it will not be genuine or from us. Please always be careful when looking for properties on other parts of the internet and follow the advice below. How to stay safe online: Though the vast majority of people want to help you find your next home, despite our best efforts there will always be a small number of fraudsters out there who want to try and trick you into giving up some of your personal details or parting with money. TIP: Rightmove will never ask you to confirm your password for MyRightmove. Here are our top tips for staying safe, and avoiding fraud, when looking for property online: Be careful when being asked to pay money before you see a property We recommend you always see the property before paying any money. If you are unable to visit the property, ask someone you trust to do so on your behalf. An agent or landlord may ask you to pay a ‘holding deposit’ to secure a viewing, which is an acceptable request under the Tenants Fee Act 2019, but they can only ask you to pay a maximum of 1 weeks rent. More information about this Act can be found here . All lettings agents are required to be part of a Client Money Protection (CMP) scheme, which helps tenants protect the deposits they put down for properties, so before making a payment we recommend asking the agent what scheme they are a member of. You can search for that agent on that schemes ‘member search’ section on their website. Don’t be pressured into transferring money Often a fraudster will create urgency by saying that in order for you to book a viewing or secure a property, you will need to transfer money. Our customers understand looking for the right property can take some time and they would not pressure you in transferring money. Be especially sceptical if you are asked to transfer money via an uncommon money transfer service such as Bitcoin. This type of transfer is virtual, not controlled by banks and not easily traceable. We recommend not making any cash payments for properties, as these will also not be easily traceable. Contact agents about properties using the official options When enquiring about a property you’ve seen on Rightmove, click the ‘Request Details’ on the listing or call using the phone number underneath the button. This will go directly through to the estate or letting agent. For more advice on how to stay secure online, the National Cyber Security Centre provides practical steps you can take to improve the security of your online accounts. You can also use their free cyber security self-assessment tool to get a personalised list of actions to help you or your family boost your cyber security. Follow this link to learn more and receive your personalised list of actions. What Rightmove will never ask you for Please be wary if anyone ever contacts you by email, call, social media message or SMS saying that they work for Rightmove, and asking you for: Personal details Rightmove will never contact you asking for password details for your MyRightmove account. If you are asked for personal information, such as your passport details or any passwords, do not give them out. If you are approached by someone saying they work for Rightmove and you don’t believe they are genuine, or you are asked to pay money to Rightmove, please let us know straight away by emailing fraud@rightmove.co.uk . Common scams we’ve heard about Though the vast majority of people want to help you find your next home, despite our best efforts there will always be a small number of fraudsters out there who want to try and trick you into giving up some of your personal details or parting with money. Here are some of the most common ways that fraudsters may try and trick you. Being asked for payment before viewing a rental property You should only be asked to make a payment before viewing a property when asked to put down a ‘holding deposit’ – this should only be a maximum of 1 weeks rent With advance fee scams , a fraudster will often offer a highly desirable property in a popular location that is well below what you would normally pay for a similar property in that area. They may try and trick you into giving them money by setting up a fake page of another well-known property or lettings website. In some cases, these pages could have a padlock in the top left of the page, so they could look convincing. They may even set up a fake instant chat with you on one of these fake web pages and even provide you with a fake invoice (see guidance on phishing pages below). You should never agree to send money using Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies. When asked to make a bank transfer payment, double check that the name on that account matches the person or company you have been interacting with. People pretending to be Rightmove Fraudsters may try to use the Rightmove name on other websites or by getting in contact with you to try and make you think that they work for Rightmove. One example of this is if you’re searching a classifieds website or other property website and come across a listing of a fake property, mentioning the Rightmove name. If you see a property on another website that mentions Rightmove you can contact us here . If you would like to know if an agent is a current member of Rightmove you can do this by using our ‘Find Agent’ section by clicking here . Rightmove owns and operates a property advertising portal; we do not have any affiliate relationships outside of the property market. Does Rightmove offer a tenant referencing service? Yes we do, this is called Rightmove Landlord and Tenants Services (RLTS). You can find out more about this by clicking here . Phishing emails What is phishing? ‘Phishing’ is when criminals use scam emails, SMS or chat messages, phone calls or social media to trick their victims. Their goal is often to make you visit a website, which may download a virus onto your computer, or steal bank details or other personal information. Follow the NCSC’s phishing guidance to learn how to recognise and report suspicious emails, texts, websites, adverts or phone calls that you think are trying to scam you. We will only send you emails from addresses with the following email domains: @rightmove.co.uk @e.rightmove.co.uk @rightmove.com A common phishing email may ask you to click on a link that takes you through to a fake webpage to fill in some personal details. One way to check if the website is genuine is to look in the top left corner of your browser. For reference, the Rightmove website looks like this on a computer: And like this on a mobile or tablet: As you will see in the address bar, the address begins with https://www.rightmove.co.uk/ . If you are on a page that appears to be Rightmove but does not have an address that starts with this, then please contact us straight away to let us know. In general, it’s best to go straight to the website or via Google if you have any doubt about the validity of the email you have received from a company (rather than clicking on the link in the email). Do you think you have been a victim of any of these scams? We recommend that you report it to Action Fraud immediately and also please report it to us by emailing our team . How to spot a fake advert, email or text message We recommend that you familiarise yourself with the key ways you can spot fake or rogue adverts, emails or text messages: Does it sound too good to be true? Often a fraudster will say they have a property to sell or rent that is much cheaper than others you may have looked at in the same area. Here are some quick checks you can do: Do a search of that property address on Google Maps and see if the result matches the images on the listing Characteristics of a fake advert We have a specialist team who are constantly monitoring our site for fake listings. Here are some of the common characteristics of a fake advert. A line of text in the images of the listings asking the home-hunter to contact an email address for quicker responses. A few properties uploaded by the same agent in a short space of time and all of these properties are in various locations across the UK. A property is advertised in an area that is a large distance away from where the agents branch is located, if it’s a local estate agent (rather than an online or national agent). Are they asking you for payment before you visit a property? We recommend that you always view the property before making any payment, but if you are asked to make a holding deposit payment to secure a viewing check that this is only a maximum of 1 weeks rent and ask the agent to confirm what Client Money Protection (CMP) scheme they are a member of. Check the email address of the sender or the website’s link Fraudulent email addresses and web pages are designed to look legitimate but have small differences, such as including random characters in the website address link (numbers, letters or other characters such as &,%,$ or ï¿½). In some cases, the differences in the spelling of a company name can be extremely subtle, or may just include a few extra characters at the beginning. As an example, a fraudster may try to replace the ‘i’ in ‘Rightmove’ with a ‘1’ so that the website address was www.r1ghtmove.co.uk , instead of www.rightmove.co.uk . If you’re ever in any doubt, you can type the website address into your search bar to go straight to a company’s website rather than clicking on a link. Be wary of emails that contain links that you are asked to click on This could be sending you to a fake website they have set up and may ask you to log-in with your personal details. Only click a link or open attachments if it comes from a sender that you trust. If you are required to provide personal information to an agent or landlord you could do this in person or verbally over the phone, making sure you are speaking to that agent using their official branch contact number advertised on Rightmove. Avoid requests that sound vague or urgent Fraudsters often introduce an element of urgency into their communications – this is intended to cause people to shortcut their decision making process and not carry out the checks described on this page. For this reason it’s especially important that to be wary of emails that ask for urgent action. You can find out more about the costs associated with renting or buying in our property guides centre . Other types of fraud Fraudsters may use other communication methods such as fake text messages or phones calls and in some cases you could be at risk of malware or other viruses, especially if they ask you to click on attachments. You can find out more about the latest fraud methods by visiting Action Fraud . Getting in touch If you think you may have been a victim of a scam or you’re unsure and want some help, you can email us at fraud@rightmove.co.uk or call us on 01908 712300. Found this useful? Share it Need more help? There a number of specialist organisations that may be able to help you: Action Fraud Citizens Advice Police Get Safe Online Calculators Mortgage Calculator Stamp Duty Calculator Useful information Market Trends Sold Prices Mortgages Get a Mortgage in Principle Property Details Glossary Find removal companies Buying a property: viewing checklist House Price Index Rental Price Tracker Moving Day Checklist Do you get our newsletter? Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Resources Where can I live? Schools Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Mobile apps Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London London stations Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Agents and Developers Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho