Home Help Search Chemicals New Search MyChemicals chemicals: 0 View MyChemicals Predict Reactivity Mobile Site Print Friendly Page United Nations/North American Number Datasheet UN/NA 1270 CAMEO Chemicals has 2 chemical datasheets with response recommendations for this UN/NA number. Response recommendations from the ERG are provided below. Emergency Response Guidebook (ERG, 2020) What is this information? The Emergency Response Guidebook (ERG) provides general response recommendations for first responders. UN/NA datasheets display several items from the ERG: material names, response guide PDFs, initial isolation and protective action distances, warnings about toxic-by-inhalation gases that may be produced if the material spills in water, and polymerization hazards. Material Names Oil, petroleum Petroleum oil Response Guide 128 Guía de Respuesta 128 Guide d'Intervention 128 Flammable Liquids (Water-Immiscible) Líquidos Inflamables (No Mezclables con Agua) Liquides Inflammables (Non-Miscibles à l'Eau) English Español Français There are no initial isolation and protective action distances listed in the ERG. The ERG doesn't predict that large amounts of toxic-by-inhalation gases will be produced if this material is spilled in water. Hazmat Table (49 CFR 172.101) What is this information? The Hazmat Table in 49 CFR 172.101 "lists and classifies those materials which the Department (of Transportation) has designated as hazardous materials for purposes of transportation". UN/NA datasheets display several items from the Hazmat Table: proper shipping names, hazard classes and divisions (explosives may also include a compatibility group letter label codes, and special notes relating to shipping location, shipping name, and whether the material is an inhalation hazard. Descriptive text for each label code is shown below the table, along with representative vehicle placards . UN/NA Proper Shipping Name Hazard Class Labels Notes* * There are three notes: (1) whether the displayed information is for domestic (U.S.) or international shipping (if neither is specifically indicated, it applies to both), (2) whether the proper shipping name must include one or more technical names of the hazardous material in parentheses, and (3) whether the hazardous material is an inhalation hazard. NA Petroleum oil 3 3 Domestic (U.S.) 3 - Flammable liquid About | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | Website Satisfaction Survey | Mobile Site Web site owner: Office of Response and Restoration , National Ocean Service , National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration . USA.gov . CAMEO Chemicals version 2.8.0 rev 2.