Skip to main content Shop Blog Become a member MENU CLOSE Created with Sketch. Trees, woods and wildlife A-Z tree guide British trees Tree pests and diseases Trees and climate change Benefits of trees Woodland animals Woodland plants Fungi and lichens Habitats Species identification guides Nature's Calendar Ancient Tree Inventory State of UK Woods and Trees 2021 Watch the osprey cam Tune into the action at our Scottish osprey nests at Loch Arkaig. Watch live Protecting trees and woods Threats to woods and trees Campaign with us Take action in your community Tell us about a threat Urban trees Influencing government and policymakers Ancient woodland restoration State of UK Woods and Trees 2021 Landscape-scale conservation Catch up on our campaigns Discover our recent challenges and successes and how you can help. Get the latest news Visiting woods Find a wood Woodland habitats Things to do Foraging Natures' Calendar Ancient Tree Inventory Events Walking Children and families Woods through the seasons Discover more in the woods Things to do in the woods Foraging: what to look out for each month Nature's Calendar Find a wood near you We've got thousands of woods, free for you to visit, across the UK. Plan your journey Plant trees Free trees for schools and communities Trees for landowners and farmers Natural regeneration Benefits of agroforestry Why plant trees? Buy trees from our shop Woodland Carbon Tree planting advice How to choose a tree Where to plant How to plant a tree UK sourced and grown trees: why buy? Plant trees on your land with MOREwoods Agroforestry Show 2023 Join us on 6-7 September for two days of inspirational workshops, talks, field walks and demonstrations. Learn more and book About us What we do Our strategy Where we work How we are run Our history Careers with us Volunteering Our partners Our publications Latest blogs Woodland Walks podcast with Adam Shaw - Yonder Oak Wood, Devon Adam Shaw • 26 May 2023 Best native hedge plants: choose the right hedges Helen Keating • 23 May 2023 10 best trees to attract birds and other wildlife Charlie Mellor • 02 May 2023 Support us Join Become a member Collect Nectar points with Woodland Trust membership Act Campaign with us Volunteer with us Your community Your school Tree Charter Events Partner with us Give Make a donation Support an appeal Leave a gift in your will Dedicate trees or woodland Fundraise for us Play our raffle Carbon donations Philanthropy and major gifts Donate your Nectar points How we spend your money Fundraise As an individual As a group At work Trees, woods and wildlife Back A-Z tree guide British trees Tree pests and diseases Trees and climate change Benefits of trees Woodland animals Woodland plants Fungi and lichens Habitats Species identification guides Nature's Calendar Ancient Tree Inventory State of UK Woods and Trees 2021 Shop Blog Protecting trees and woods Back Threats to woods and trees Campaign with us Take action in your community Tell us about a threat Urban trees Influencing government and policymakers Ancient woodland restoration State of UK Woods and Trees 2021 Landscape-scale conservation Shop Blog Visiting woods Back Find a wood Woodland habitats Things to do Back Things to do Foraging Natures' Calendar Ancient Tree Inventory Events Walking Children and families Woods through the seasons Shop Blog Shop Blog Plant trees Back Free trees for schools and communities Trees for landowners and farmers Natural regeneration Benefits of agroforestry Why plant trees? Buy trees from our shop Woodland Carbon Tree planting advice Back Tree planting advice How to choose a tree Where to plant How to plant a tree Shop Blog UK sourced and grown trees: why buy? Plant trees on your land with MOREwoods Shop Blog About us Back What we do Our strategy Where we work How we are run Our history Careers with us Volunteering Our partners Our publications Shop Blog Support us Back Join Back Join Become a member Collect Nectar points with Woodland Trust membership Shop Blog Act Back Act Campaign with us Volunteer with us Your community Your school Tree Charter Events Partner with us Shop Blog Give Back Give Make a donation Support an appeal Leave a gift in your will Dedicate trees or woodland Fundraise for us Play our raffle Carbon donations Philanthropy and major gifts Donate your Nectar points How we spend your money Shop Blog Fundraise Back Fundraise As an individual As a group At work Shop Blog Shop Blog Become a member Shop Blog British blossom: the ultimate guide Spring is a spectacular time as trees burst into a glorious mass of delicate whites and pastels. In celebration of the season, here's our guide to British blossom close A male blackcap perching among blossoming blackthorn is a quintessential sign that spring has arrived. Credit: Andy Rouse / Naturepl.com Non native trees like this ornamental cherry plum (or myrobalan) often line suburban streets and give the most spectacular displays of pink blossom in very early spring. Credit: Ernie Jones / naturepl.com Blackthorn blossom is among the earliest to appear in late winter. Credit: Simon Colmer / naturepl.com Apple blossom appears from late spring. Its sweet fragrance attracts insects and other wildlife. Credit: Andy Sands / naturepl.com Hawthorn shield bug feeds on sap from a blossoming May (hawthorn) tree. Credit: Alex Hyde / naturepl.com Blackthorn often flowers when we get spells of wintry, cold weather and has given rise to the phrase 'blackthorn winter'. Credit: David Tipling / naturepl.com Why do trees have blossom? Fruiting trees rely on insects for pollination, so their flowers tend to be showy, colourful and sweet-smelling to signal that nectar is available. In contrast, wind-pollinated trees tend to have drooping or hanging clusters of flowers that are inconspicuous and green or brown in colour. What is blossom? Many trees flower in spring, but what makes it blossom? Botanically speaking, blossom refers to the flowers of stone fruit trees in the family Rosaceae such as plums, cherries, apples and hawthorns. They usually flower abundantly over a relatively short period in spring and range in pastel colours from creamy whites to deeper pinks. When to see blossom in the UK Orchards, parks, gardens, woodlands and along streets and hedgerows are all good places to spot blossom. Here at the Woodland Trust, we look after more than a thousand woods across the UK that are free for you to explore. Find a wood near you and enjoy a spring walk. UK spring blossom calendar Month Species Blossom colour February blackthorn white cherry plum white March blackthorn white cherry plum white pear white plum white April plum white crab apple white or pink bird cherry white wild cherry white hawthorn white or pink Midland hawthorn white or pink Plymouth pear cream or pink May crab apple white or pink hawthorn white or pink Midland hawthorn white or pink Plymouth pear cream or pink Plymouth pear cream or pink sour cherry white rowan creamy white domestic apple white or pink June rowan creamy white domestic apple white or pink This table gives a rough guide only. Flowering times depend on where you are in the UK - the further north often the later the date. Month February March April May June Species blackthorn cherry plum blackthorn cherry plum pear plum plum crab apple bird cherry wild cherry hawthorn Midland hawthorn Plymouth pear crab apple hawthorn Midland hawthorn Plymouth pear Plymouth pear sour cherry rowan domestic apple rowan domestic apple Blossom colour white white white white white white white white or pink white white white or pink white or pink cream or pink white or pink white or pink white or pink cream or pink cream or pink white creamy white white or pink creamy white white or pink swipe to see more This table gives a rough guide only. Flowering times depend on where you are in the UK - the further north often the later the date. Flowering times Climate change is causing UK plants to flower almost a month earlier on average, according to a study using our Nature's Calendar observations. Is spring arriving earlier? Although we love the arrival of spring, year-on-year early springs can have catastrophic consequences for wildlife. If flowers like blossom appear earlier, it leads to an ecological mismatch where hungry chicks hatch too late to feast on abundant insects that feed on the flowers. The earlier that spring arrives, the harder it is for birds to adjust the timing of their breeding to match the peak in insects. You can let is know what's happening to wildlife in your area. Anyone in the UK can submit a record to Nature’s Calendar and it helps scientists to understand how climate change is affecting ecosystems across the UK. Is climate change causing plants to flower early? Plants flowering too early could be disastrous for wildlife. Help us track the effects of climate change near you. Take part in Nature's Calendar British blossom trees - take a closer look Explore our list of the UK's wild and naturalised blossom trees and learn how to identify them with our easy tips. Apple Crab apple Blackthorn Cherry, bird Cherry, sour Cherry, wild Hawthorn Hawthorn, Midland Pear Pear, Plymouth Plum Plum, cherry Rowan Discover more Blog Hawthorn and blackthorn: what’s the difference? Charlie Mellor • 09 Apr 2019 Blog UK blossom quiz: how well do you know tree flowers? Rachel Hoskins • 14 Mar 2020 Blog British trees and shrubs to plant: 14 native garden trees Helen Keating • 08 Nov 2021 Blog Early spring flowers quiz: 13 flowering plants and shrubs Charlie Mellor • 11 Feb 2021 Blog First signs of spring in nature Charlie Mellor • 19 Feb 2021 Keep in touch with the nature you love Sign up to stay connected Contact us Jobs Press and media Newsletter Publications Accessibility Cookie policy Privacy policy Terms and conditions The Woodland Trust is a charity registered in England and Wales (No. 294344) and in Scotland (No. SC038885). A non-profit-making company limited by guarantee. Registered in England No. 1982873. Woodland Trust (Enterprises) Limited, registered in England (No. 2296645), is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Woodland Trust. Registered office: Kempton Way, Grantham, Lincolnshire, NG31 6LL. The Woodland Trust and Woodland Trust Nature Detectives logos are registered trademarks. Images © protected Woodland Trust. VAT No. GB520 6111 04. Most Woodland Trust woods are certified to FSC® standards by the Soil Association. Certificate number SA-FM/COC-001270, Licence code FSC-C009406. close Search our site