Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 31 2 31 2 Edgebrook, East Fettes Avenue, Inverleith, Edinburgh, EH4 See map Offers Over £2,600,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 23/08/2022 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×8 BATHROOMS ×4 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Beautifully situated adjacent to the open green spaces of Inverleith Park Within a few hundred metres of Stockbridge, as well as some of the city's finest schools Generously proportioned accommodation set over four floors retaining much of its original charm Self-contained two bedroom lower ground floor flat Superb family living and reception space throughout the ground floor Six generous bedrooms and three bathrooms (one en suite) in the principal part of the house Excellent privacy and extensive off-street car parking Delightful and colourful rear garden with productive fruit and vegetable beds EPC Rating = D Property description Incredibly charming detached Victorian family home in one of Edinburgh's most sought after areas, with accommodation on four floors including a self-contained flat Description Edgebrook, 13 East Fettes Avenue, is a wonderful detached stone built Victorian family home offering exceptionally spacious, bright and flexible accommodation set out over four floors in total. With aspects principally to the east and west, the house benefits from an abundance of natural light throughout the day with a charming outlook over the stunning rear garden to the delightful Inverleith park and pond. Generous in proportions throughout, Edgebrook caters perfectly for contemporary family living. The living and reception rooms flow beautifully from the central reception hallway on the ground floor, while the principal six bedrooms are located on the first and second floors. Of particular note is the superb open plan kitchen, dining and sitting room with extended sun room, which has aspects to both east and west. In addition to this, there is a lower ground floor flat, which has a connecting stair, but can be self-contained and is ideal for visitors, producing an income or for live-in home help. The front door opens to a vestibule and on into the welcoming hallway from where the principal family living and reception space is accessed and the stair rises to the upper floors. The elegant drawing room is situated to the front of the house and has a west facing bay window as well as second window on the northern gable making it a wonderful light room. There is delightful cornicing and living gas flame fire with a charming mantelpiece. The home office is situated to the rear of the house, and has the stair descending to the lower ground floor flat. The impressive open plan kitchen, dining and sitting room is situated to the other side of the hall and stretches from the front of the house to the back with a wonderful sun room extension, ensuring plenty of light throughout the day. Also on the ground floor is a cloakroom with WC. The stair rises to the first floor where there are four generous double bedrooms. The principal bedroom benefits from an en suite bathroom and built-in wardrobes, while two other bedrooms also have built-in wardrobes. There is a family bathroom in addition. Plans have previously been drawn up to create a larger en suite bathroom and dressing room for bedroom two, by connecting through to bedroom four. A further stair rises to the upper floor, where there are two further sizeable bedrooms and an additional bathroom. Externally, the house is set behind tall fencing with a gated driveway providing extensive off-street parking to the front of the house. There is mature screening with hedging and a wonderful acer providing exceptional privacy, with the house set well back from the road. A pathway continues round both sides of the house with steps leading down to the garden to the rear, and providing access to the lower ground floor flat. The garden is also accessed from the sun room extension off the kitchen, with a generous deck providing a wonderful area for external dining and sitting out during the warmer months. Steps lead down from the deck to the well-tended and colourful garden. Here there are a wide variety of specimen plants, shrubs and trees giving plenty of colour and interest throughout the year. There are productive raised beds with vegetables and fruit cages, while there is a bright and sunny lawn to the rear of the garden with a further patio beyond. Location Edgebrook is located in the much sought after Inverleith district of Edinburgh just over 1 mile north of the city centre. It is renowned for quality family houses and flats set in generous gardens. The area is characterised by a large swathe of green open spaces including the world renowned Royal Botanic Garden, Inverleith Park, which is adjacent to the property, and the playing fields of George Heriots, The Edinburgh Academy and Fettes College. The house is a few hundred metres from the entrance to Fettes College and under a mile from Edinburgh Academy. Erskine Stewart's Melville Schools, St George's School for Girls and located in Ravelston while George Heriots and Cargilfield are within three miles also. The house is well situated for access to the city centre and Stockbridge lies around the corner, and offers an excellent range of specialist shopping and choice of restaurants, whilst Comely Bank and Craigleith provide further retail outlets including Waitrose, Marks and Spencer and Sainsburys. The house is also well situated for easy access to Waverley Station, the Tram and the main routes westwards to the city bypass, airport and Motorway Network. Square Footage: 4,797 sq ft Additional Info Listing - The property is not listed but lies within the Inverleith Conservation Area. Fixtures and fittings - All fitted carpets, curtains, light fittings, white goods and the Aga are included in the sale. Brochures Web Details Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Rating Graph Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Edgebrook, East Fettes Avenue, Inverleith, Edinburgh, EH4 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Haymarket Station 1.0 miles Edinburgh Waverley Station 1.3 miles Slateford Station 2.5 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Savills, Edinburgh Wemyss House 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise span the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa, and the Middle East. Our scale gives us wide-ranging specialist and local knowledge, and we take pride in providing best-in-class advice as we help individuals, businesses and institutions make better property decisions. Outstanding property We have been advising on Read more More properties from this agent Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Savills, Edinburgh Wemyss House 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH More properties from this agent Call agent : 0131 381 1711 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference EDT180071. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Savills, Edinburgh . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0131 381 1711 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho