Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 15 1 15 1 NEW HOME Belgravia Gate, Grosvenor Crescent, Belgravia, London, SW1X See map £43,700,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 02/05/2023 BEDROOMS ×6 BATHROOMS ×7 TENURE Leasehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features 6 bedrooms 4 reception rooms 6 - 7 bathrooms Leisure Facilities Lift Modern Concierge Gym New Build New Development Property description A 2nd-floor lateral apartment providing grand entertaining space and 6-bedrooms. Located on the second floor of Belgravia Gate on Grosvenor Crescent the apartment forms part of five, Grade II listed buildings that have been comprehensively redeveloped to provide 12 beautifully crafted residences in this prestigious Belgravia address. The apartment has been exquisitely designed by internationally renowned, New York-based designers Thomas Juul-Hansen. A sophisticated palette of natural tones and materials of the very highest quality has been chosen in order to maximize the magnificent proportions. This apartment has nine large sash windows facing Grosvenor Crescent providing exceptional entertaining and living accommodation with ceiling heights in excess of 3m. Belgravia Gate features a comprehensive suite of five-star amenities. - Belgravia Gate benefits from a truly world-class location and is one the most desirable addresses in Europe surrounded by the very best London has to offer from Michelin-starred restaurants, luxury hotels, and flagship stores, to Royal Parks and numerous cultural sites. The apartment has been exquisitely designed by internationally renowned, New York-based designers Thomas Juul-Hansen. A sophisticated palette of natural tones and materials of the very highest quality has been chosen in order to maximize the magnificent proportions. This apartment has 9 large sash windows facing Grosvenor Crescent providing exceptional entertaining and living accommodation with ceiling heights in excess of 3m. Belgravia Gate features a comprehensive suite of amenities with outstanding interior and architectural design. • 24-hour doorman and concierge • Private reception lobby • Luxurious spa and swimming pool • Treatment and massage rooms • Gymnasium and personal training facilities • Business centre • Private meeting rooms • Temperature-controlled wine cellars • Chef's kitchen • Secure underground car parking with a lift direct to the apartment Complete and ready for immediate occupation. *Property is unfurnished Belgravia Gate benefits from a truly world-class location and is one of the most desirable addresses in Europe. Surrounded by the very best London has to offer from Michelin-starred restaurants, luxury hotels and flagship stores, to Royal Parks and numerous cultural sites Brochures More Details Apartment_6_-_Belgra Read more Tenure: Leasehold You buy the right to live in a property for a fixed number of years, but the freeholder owns the land the property's built on. Read more about tenure type in our glossary page. GROUND RENT A regular payment made by the leaseholder to the freeholder, or management company. Read more about ground rent in our glossary page. £0 per year ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE A regular payment for things like building insurance, lighting, cleaning and maintenance for shared areas of an estate. They're often paid once a year, or annually. Read more about annual service charge in our glossary page. £0 LENGTH OF LEASE How long you've bought the leasehold, or right to live in a property for. Read more about length of lease in our glossary page. Ask agent Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent Belgravia Gate, Grosvenor Crescent, Belgravia, London, SW1X Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Hyde Park Corner Station 0.1 miles Knightsbridge Station 0.3 miles Green Park Station 0.5 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Knight Frank - New Homes, Prime Central London Developments 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 8AN About Us About us We are passionate about property. Our foundations are built on supporting clients in one of the most significant decisions they'll make in their lifetime. As your partners in property, we act with integrity and are here to help you achieve the very best price for your home in the quickest possible time. We offer a range of services for your property requirements. If you are selling, buying or letting a home, or you need some frank advice and insight on th Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Knight Frank - New Homes, Prime Central London Developments 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 8AN More properties from this agent Call agent : 020 3879 0884 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference PRD012257989. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Knight Frank - New Homes, Prime Central London Developments . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 020 3879 0884 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho