Search Report a repair Contact us My Move Account Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Sell Property valuation Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Local Sold House Prices Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Looking to move? Get your property valuation Get your conveyancing solicitor Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations How much can I afford? - use our budget planner and find out Something need fixing - Report a repair Landlords Rental valuation Book an accurate lettings valuation Get an instant online valuation Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations Looking to let? Get your property valuation Get your property managed New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Mortgages Mortgage Services Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Book your mortgage appointment About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection Branches Sales Amersham Hazlemere and Great Missenden High Wycombe Princes Risborough Land & New Homes Lettings Amersham High Wycombe Princes Risborough Fine & Country Fine & Country South Buckinghamshire Other departments Sales Progression Property Management JNP Handyman Services Head Office xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? My Move xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Branches xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Report a repair - Fixflo Branches Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Sell Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Local Sold House Prices Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Existing tenants Report a maintenance issue What to do in an emergency Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations Landlords Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Mortgages Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Careers About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection You're in control We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. To learn more about how we use cookies, please see our Cookie Policy . You can manage your preferences now on this banner, or via your browser at anytime. Functional Active Inactive Analytical Active Inactive Non-essential Active Inactive Manage Accept Home Buy Buyer FAQs Buyer FAQs Find out more about frequently asked questions when buying a house I want to buy a property. What do I do first? Before you start searching for a property, you need to know what costs are involved, how much deposit you can afford and what size mortgage you are likely to be offered. Our handy calculators can help you understand your finances or, if you would like a more accurate idea of how much you could borrow and some help finding the best mortgage deal, you can make an appointment with our partner, Embrace Financial Services . Read our first time buyer guide. I've found a property I love. What do I do now? You need to apply for a mortgage and find a solicitor before you can make an offer. Our partner Embrace Financial Services can help you with these. You don't need to have instructed a solicitor to make an offer, but as soon as an offer is accepted, you should contact a solicitor / conveyancer to move the process along and get the process rolling. What if I want to buy a property with another person? There are two main options. Becoming " Joint Tenants " is ideal if you are a couple, particularly if you're married. It means you will jointly own the whole of the property. If the worst happens and one of you should die, the ownership will automatically pass to the other. The second option is to hold the property as " Tenants In Common ", which means each of you owns an agreed proportion of the property. You might decide that you own an equal share of the property, or (for example) that one of you will own 70% and the other 30%. Should one of you die their proportion will pass to whoever is specified in the deceased person's will. A joint purchase should always be made with the expert advice of a solicitor. How long will it take to complete my purchase? Every purchase is different, your position, the seller's position and how many other people are in the chain will affect how long the process takes. If the seller has already vacated the property and you have already secured a mortgage exchange of contracts and completion can happen relatively quickly However, if you need a mortgage and the seller is still in the property or has an onward purchase, the exchange of contracts normally takes between 4 and 8 weeks, and then completion takes between 2 and 4 weeks. So in total you should expect anywhere from 6 to 12 weeks to complete the purchase. How much will conveyancing cost? We can introduce you to a solicitor and offer a no sale no fee conveyancing service with a guaranteed fixed price to keep everything simple. Get in touch using our Conveyancing Enquiry form and an adviser will contact you to discuss your requirements. How much will stamp duty cost? You must pay Stamp Duty Land Tax (SDLT) if you buy a property or land over a certain price in England. It is charged as a percentage of the purchase price, but the amount you have to pay is also affected by other factors - including whether you’re a first-time buyer, if you already own a property and you’re buying an additional property - or if you’re not a UK resident. To find out how much Stamp Duty you will need to pay use our Stamp Duty calculator. Stamp Duty Calculator Reason for buying the property * First time buyer (FTB) Primary residence (not FTB) Second home Buy-to-let Property price (£) * You would pay £ When do I need to pay the deposit? The deposit is paid to the seller’s solicitor, usually within five days of the exchange of contracts. When will my mortgage lender release the funds? The funds from your mortgage will be requested from the lender by your solicitor. It usually takes around 4-5 working days for the lender to release the money. Your solicitor will take this time into account when advising you of the earliest possible completion date. When do I need to arrange insurance? We recommend organising home and contents insurance shortly before you sign the contract and all insurance policies should begin from the exchange of contract date. You should also consider organising mortgage protection so that your family isn't pressured to cover your mortgage in the worst case scenario of illness or death. This should be arranged when you complete your mortgage application. Our partner First2Protect can help you with all these products. What are searches? As part of the conveyancing process, your solicitor will perform searches of Land Registry and Local Authority information. They will be checking for planning history, and any potential developments around roads, drainage and mining near the property. When do I sign the contract? After the sale is agreed, the seller's solicitor will draft a contract. Your solicitor will confirm the details of the property and perform searches. At the same time, your mortgage lender will need to conduct a mortgage valuation and send you a mortgage offer. Once all of this is complete, you will be ready to sign the contract and agree the completion date. When is the buyer or seller bound to the sale or purchase? Until both solicitors receive signed contracts from the seller and the buyer (known as exchange of contracts), either party can pull out at any time and for any reason. How is a completion date chosen? Once both parties have signed the contracts, your solicitor will request the mortgage funds from the lender. The mortgage lender will let your solicitor know when the funds will be released, then your solicitor and the seller's solicitor will consult both parties and agree a completion date. However, possible completion dates are usually discussed earlier to allow services like removals to be arranged. How and when do I get the keys? The contract will detail specifically where and when you collect the keys and what time the seller has to vacate the property. The seller is usually required to vacate the property by 12pm, and the keys collected from the seller's estate agent at 2pm. What happens to my title deeds? The title deeds of your property will remain with your solicitor while they complete the legal work which happens after you've recieved the keys. If you do not have a mortgage on the property when your purchase completes, your solicitor will send them to you. If there is a mortgage on the property, your solicitior will send the deeds to your Lender, who will hold them until you repay your mortgage with them in full, remortgage to another lender or sell the property. What will the seller leave in the property? A list of fixtures and fittings will be agreed between the solicitors prior to the contract being signed. This sets out what the seller intends to remove and what they are prepared to include in the house price. In some instances, they may offer items for sale for the purchaser to consider, and some contents can be offered for inclusion as part of the negotiation of the purchase price. Book a valuation Contact your local branch My Move account Buy Find Property For Sale Land & New Homes Buying Calculators Rent Find Property To Rent Permitted payments Report a repair Sell Sell your property with us Book a property valuation Get an instant valuation Landlords Landlord services Service options & Fees Guides for landlords Services Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Helpful Links Careers Branches Privacy Notice Legal Information Accessibility Cookie Policy VAT Complaints Procedure Client Money Protection Anti Money Laundering information xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? JNP is a trading name, independently owned and operated under licence from LSLi Limited by AIG (KH) Ltd (company number 14772222), registered in England at 5 Brooklands Place, Brooklands Road, Sale, Cheshire, England, M33 3SD. Also trading as Fine & Country. We may refer you to recommended providers of ancillary services such as Conveyancing, Financial Services, Insurance and Surveying. We may receive a commission payment fee or other benefit (known as a referral fee) for recommending their services. You are not under any obligation to use the services of the recommended provider. The ancillary service provider may be an associated company of JNP.