Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property UK property for sale Search using 'town name', 'postcode' or 'station' Find your new home for sale on Rightmove Rightmove has over 800,000 properties for sale throughout the UK, giving you the UK's largest selection of new build and resale homes. Listing an extensive range of houses, flats, bungalows, land and retirement homes, Rightmove makes it easy for you to find your next happy home regardless of whether you're a first-time buyer, upsizing, downsizing or relocating. Restorations and refurbishments can be fun, however if you're looking for a blank canvas, a newly built property might be a better fit. Rightmove has tens of thousands of new homes for sale from the UK's top developers, so if it's a new build home you're searching for, look no further. Ways to search for property Browse by map Start your search for property in England , Scotland , Wales , Northern Ireland , or London . Tube & rail stations Perfect if you are looking for a property on a particular tube, rail or DLR line. Search now Draw a search Start your search as wide or as defined as you like with our draw a search tool. Define an area Tools to help you search School Checker Ensure you find the right home, near the right school with new School Checker tool. Read more Sold Prices Discover how much property sold for with our comprehensive house price data. Check sold prices Get Agent Valuation Request a no-obligation valuation and find out how much your home is worth. Request valuation Property guides A must-have read for anyone buying or selling property. Learn more Jargon Buster Can't tell a MIP from your LTV? We can help. Learn more Mortgage calculator Find out how much you could borrow. Check now Overseas property If you're dreaming of a place in the sun, ensure you start your search with Rightmove Overseas. With thousands of overseas properties for sale from across the globe, we can ensure your dream becomes a reality. View details Find estate agents on Rightmove If you're thinking of selling your property, make sure you choose an agent that can advertise your property on the UK's biggest shop window. Start your search for a local agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho