Home About Podcast Public Speaking Workplace Wellness YOUniversity Be a Better Being Fdn. Books & Blogs The YOU Revolution the PFF is your BFF Blogs Library Contact More Home About Podcast Public Speaking Workplace Wellness YOUniversity Be a Better Being Fdn. Books & Blogs The YOU Revolution the PFF is your BFF Blogs Library Contact Home About Podcast Public Speaking Workplace Wellness YOUniversity Be a Better Being Fdn. Books & Blogs The YOU Revolution the PFF is your BFF Blogs Library Contact Better Minds Better Bodies Better Beings Better Minds Better Bodies Better Beings Better Minds Better Bodies Better Beings Better Minds Better Bodies Better Beings Hi, My name is Michelle Zellner. Welcome to Better Beings In the past 25 years, I have been a guide, coach, author and keynote speaker. With extensive experience in many aspects of physical, mental and emotional wellbeing, I have been a catalyst for thousands of people transforming their lives. Whether you are looking for a self-paced online course, a facilitator for employee wellbeing workshops, or a dynamic speaker for your next event, I can offer information and inspiration. Together, we will navigate the process to create your most satisfied life. Read more about michelle Things going on in February All to help you be a better being! YOU Revolution Be a Better Being Spring CHallenge Take it to Heart Webinar Feb 23rd American Heart Association Go Red for Women Challenge Here's the latest episode of the be a better being PodcasT READY TO CHANGE YOUR LIFE? I invite you to take the YOU Revolution quiz Curious if participating in the YOU Revolution can be a catalyst to your success? Answer the following questions: I set out with good intentions, but often don’t follow through to the end. I have tried numerous times to make positive changes in my lifestyle, but typically revert back to my old ways. I realize there is a lot I don’t know and proper guidance will help move me forward in my journey. I am good at setting goals, but struggle to stay on track to reach them. I know what I need to do, I’m just not doing it. If you answered yes to any of them, the YOU Revolution IS for you! Solid information and guidance from a coach can mean the difference between stagnation and celebration. The YOU Revolution will provide foundational knowledge, as well as address the individual needs of each participant. Information, inspiration, accountability and motivation --all necessary to help you navigate your own journey toward a better being. All part of the YOU Revolution. Questions? Contact me so I can help! If you prefer self-paced, online learning, click here to check out YOU Revolution YOUniversity. Subscribe Sign up to get my monthly newsletter with all the latest! Email Sign up Participant testimonials Home About Podcast Public Speaking Workplace Wellness YOUniversity Be a Better Being Fdn. The YOU Revolution the PFF is your BFF Blogs Library Contact Better Beings Denver, Colorado USA (720) 300-0315 Copyright © 2018 Better Beings & the YOU Revolution ® All Rights Reserved.