Search Report a repair Contact us My Move Account Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Sell Property valuation Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Local Sold House Prices Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Looking to move? Get your property valuation Get your conveyancing solicitor Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations How much can I afford? - use our budget planner and find out Something need fixing - Report a repair Landlords Rental valuation Book an accurate lettings valuation Get an instant online valuation Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations Looking to let? Get your property valuation Get your property managed New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Mortgages Mortgage Services Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Book your mortgage appointment About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection Branches Sales Amersham Hazlemere and Great Missenden High Wycombe Princes Risborough Land & New Homes Lettings Amersham High Wycombe Princes Risborough Fine & Country Fine & Country South Buckinghamshire Other departments Sales Progression Property Management JNP Handyman Services Head Office xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? My Move xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Branches xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Report a repair - Fixflo Branches Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Sell Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Local Sold House Prices Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Existing tenants Report a maintenance issue What to do in an emergency Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations Landlords Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Mortgages Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Careers About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection You're in control We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. To learn more about how we use cookies, please see our Cookie Policy . You can manage your preferences now on this banner, or via your browser at anytime. Functional Active Inactive Analytical Active Inactive Non-essential Active Inactive Manage Accept Home Buy Buyer calculators Stamp Duty Land Tax Stamp Duty Land Tax Calculator When you buy a residential property in England over a certain price you have to pay Stamp Duty Land Tax (SDLT). The tax is paid to the government within 14 days of completion of the sale via an SDLT return to HMRC. You can use our calculator to work out the stamp duty on your chosen property. Stamp Duty Calculator Reason for buying the property * First time buyer (FTB) Primary residence (not FTB) Second home Buy-to-let Property price (£) * You would pay £ What is Stamp Duty? Stamp Duty Land Tax (SDLT) is a tax on properties bought in England and Northern Ireland. The rate of Stamp Duty you'll pay will depend on the price of your property and your reason for buying it. How is Stamp Duty paid? The tax is paid to the government within 14 days of completion of the sale via an SDLT return to HMRC. If you have a solicitor, estate agent or conveyancer, they’ll usually file your return and pay the tax on your behalf on the day of completion and add the amount to their fees. They’ll also claim any relief you’re eligible for, such as if you’re a first-time buyer. You can also file the return and pay the tax yourself if you wish to do so. Stamp Duty rates Stamp Duty for first time buyers: From 23 rd September 2022, first-time buyers will not pay Stamp Duty on the first £425,000 of any property. Tax bands for first-time buyers are as follows: Property value SDLT rate Up to £425,000 Zero The next £500,000 (the value between £425,001 to £925,000) 5% The next £575,000 (the value between £925,001 to £1.5 million) 10% The remaining amount (the value above £1.5 million) 12% Buyers moving to a new primary residence (not first time buyers): The Stamp Duty bands for those replacing a primary residence from 23 rd September 2022 are as follows: Property value SDLT rate Up to £250,000 Zero The next £675,000 (the value between £250,001 to £925,000) 5% The next £575,000 (the value between £925,001 to £1.5 million) 10% The remaining amount (the value above £1.5 million) 12% Stamp Duty for second-home buyers and buy-to-let landlords: From 23 rd September 2022, the new rates for Stamp Duty are also applicable to second-home buyers and buy-to-let landlords. However, these groups will still have to pay the 3% additional homes levy that was introduced in April 2016. Second home and buy-to-let Stamp Duty rates are therefore as follows: Property value SDLT rate Up to £250,000 3% The next £675,000 (the value between £250,001 to £925,000) 8% The next £575,000 (the value between £925,001 to £1.5 million) 13% The remaining amount (the value between £1.5 million) 15% Stamp Duty for non-UK residents: The amended rates for Stamp Duty are also applicable to people who are not resident in the UK. However, they will still have to pay the 2% non-UK resident surcharge that was introduced in April 2021. This means the current rates for this group are as follows: Property value SDLT rate Up to £250,000 2% The next £675,000 (the value between £250,001 to £925,000) 7% The next £575,000 (the value between £925,001 to £1.5 million) 12% The remaining amount (the value between £1.5 million) 14% Book a valuation Contact your local branch My Move account Buy Find Property For Sale Land & New Homes Buying Calculators Rent Find Property To Rent Permitted payments Report a repair Sell Sell your property with us Book a property valuation Get an instant valuation Landlords Landlord services Service options & Fees Guides for landlords Services Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Helpful Links Careers Branches Privacy Notice Legal Information Accessibility Cookie Policy VAT Complaints Procedure Client Money Protection Anti Money Laundering information xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? JNP is a trading name, independently owned and operated under licence from LSLi Limited by AIG (KH) Ltd (company number 14772222), registered in England at 5 Brooklands Place, Brooklands Road, Sale, Cheshire, England, M33 3SD. Also trading as Fine & Country. We may refer you to recommended providers of ancillary services such as Conveyancing, Financial Services, Insurance and Surveying. We may receive a commission payment fee or other benefit (known as a referral fee) for recommending their services. You are not under any obligation to use the services of the recommended provider. The ancillary service provider may be an associated company of JNP.