Search Report a repair Contact us My Move Account Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Sell Property valuation Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Local Sold House Prices Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Looking to move? Get your property valuation Get your conveyancing solicitor Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations How much can I afford? - use our budget planner and find out Something need fixing - Report a repair Landlords Rental valuation Book an accurate lettings valuation Get an instant online valuation Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations Looking to let? Get your property valuation Get your property managed New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Mortgages Mortgage Services Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Book your mortgage appointment About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection Branches Sales Amersham Hazlemere and Great Missenden High Wycombe Princes Risborough Land & New Homes Lettings Amersham High Wycombe Princes Risborough Fine & Country Fine & Country South Buckinghamshire Other departments Sales Progression Property Management JNP Handyman Services Head Office xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? My Move xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Branches xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Report a repair - Fixflo Branches Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Sell Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Local Sold House Prices Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Existing tenants Report a maintenance issue What to do in an emergency Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations Landlords Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Mortgages Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Careers About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection You're in control We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. To learn more about how we use cookies, please see our Cookie Policy . You can manage your preferences now on this banner, or via your browser at anytime. Functional Active Inactive Analytical Active Inactive Non-essential Active Inactive Manage Accept Home Sell Selling guides The selling process The selling process Book a valuation Selling guides First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale The selling process Whether you’re looking for the best price, a quick sale or to get on with your next property purchase, we will take great care when selling your property, making sure you get the sale you want. Below is a short guide of what to expect when selling your house with JNP. Our collaborative approach is tailored to your specific moving goals, so we first meet and listen closely to what you want to achieve and then work closely with you to ensure that your goals are taken in to account and the property is presented as you would wish. If you would like to discuss your requirements further feel free to call into one of our branches , give us a call or book a free expert valuation . Agree the guide price of your home We will discuss with you the options for price positioning in the current market and agree a marketing plan for your property. Our market appraisal report will provide you with local and national market information, giving you details of comparable sold properties and a guide to the prices they achieved. You will also receive local selling statistics, giving you a realistic expectation of how long it might take to sell your property. Creating your property marketing We will take professional photographs, take note of all the major selling features alongside measurements to create an attractive sales brochure and online marketing material including accurate floorplans. There is also the option for a 3D proeprty tour and property video. Make sure to take a look at our guide on how to get your home photo ready. Launching your property to market Once you're satisfied with the marketing materials we've created for your home we will launch your property onto the market quickly and efficiently. We market on large property portals including Rightmove and Zoopla alongside our website to ensure it has maximum visibility to potential buyers. Where appropriate, a ‘for sale’ board will also be put outside your property. Property matchmaking When we launch your property onto the market we immediately undertake a matching process with our comprehensive and qualified database of buyers. Our network of offices has a database of thousands of interested buyers and we will contact anyone whose criteria match your home Property viewings When your property has caught a prospective buyer’s eye enough to arrange a viewing, we will contact you to schedule an appropriate time when we can show the viewer around your property. Once the viewing has been conducted we will contact the viewer to ask for their feedback on the property which is a great way to determine their level of interest. Interested buyers and offers Once we have someone who is interested in buying your home it is really important to keep in close contact with you and them. Where possible we will appoint a dedicated Sales Negotiator to your property to keep things moving smoothly. Our Sales negotiators will be the liaison between you and your buyer to make sure that we get you the best price for your home. When a buyer puts forward an offer, our sales negotiators will verify their ability to raise finances and check chain details, as well as timescales and other background information. Once an offer has been received and accepted, your ‘for sale’ board will be updated to ‘sold’. Conveyancing There are two people who will be in constant contact with you during this part of your house move - our Sales Progressor and your conveyancer. Your conveyancer is appointed by you to undertake all the legal paperwork for your sale. To help ensure a smooth start to your purchase, in the first 10 days after accepting an offer, make sure the following are completed: Solicitors have been fully instructed (i.e. all forms filled in and returned to them, including payment on account for searches.) Full Mortgage application has been submitted - or a date when this will take place has been arranged. This will allow your mortgage application to be processed and the conveyancer/solicitor can begin work preparing draft contracts. Need help finding a conveyancer? Find out more about our conveyancing service . Keeping things moving A member of our team will contact you regularly to keep you updated on what is happening. We will also be in close contact with your buyer and their conveyancer to keep everything moving and reduce any chance of anything going wrong. Sign & exchange contracts Once the contracts are signed, the buyer's deposit (normally 5 - 10% of the property price) is sent to the seller's conveyancer, along with the signed contract. This is known as exchange of contracts. You are now legally bound to the sale/purchase and cannot withdraw without suffering a loss. Once the contracts have been exchanged it is time to continue organising to be ready to move. At this point, a proposed completion date will be agreed so you can let the removal company know when you’ll need them. Completion On completion day, after both solicitors have made their final checks, the buyers solicitor will then transfer the funds into the sellers account. The estate agents will then release the keys for the property to the new owner. Previous - First time sellers guide Next - Preparing your home for sale Useful information for sellers Get your property valued Book your valuation today and start your property move Why sell with us? Find out more about selling with JNP Financial services for sellers Helpful information about mortgages and insurance Useful information for sellers Get your property valued Why sell with us Financial services for sellers Book a valuation Contact your local branch My Move account Buy Find Property For Sale Land & New Homes Buying Calculators Rent Find Property To Rent Permitted payments Report a repair Sell Sell your property with us Book a property valuation Get an instant valuation Landlords Landlord services Service options & Fees Guides for landlords Services Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Helpful Links Careers Branches Privacy Notice Legal Information Accessibility Cookie Policy VAT Complaints Procedure Client Money Protection Anti Money Laundering information xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? JNP is a trading name, independently owned and operated under licence from LSLi Limited by AIG (KH) Ltd (company number 14772222), registered in England at 5 Brooklands Place, Brooklands Road, Sale, Cheshire, England, M33 3SD. Also trading as Fine & Country. We may refer you to recommended providers of ancillary services such as Conveyancing, Financial Services, Insurance and Surveying. We may receive a commission payment fee or other benefit (known as a referral fee) for recommending their services. You are not under any obligation to use the services of the recommended provider. The ancillary service provider may be an associated company of JNP.