Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 42 2 42 2 Dumgoyne, 10 Briarwell Road, Milngavie, G62 6AQ See map Offers Over £1,100,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 09/06/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached Villa BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×4 SIZE 3,983 sq. ft. (370 sq. m.) TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Property description Property Description Upgraded to the highest standard throughout, Dumgoyne is a stunning family home, located in one of Milngavie's most exclusive addresses. Built in 1928, this five bedroom property offers flexible family accommodation over three levels, with exceptional views over Milngavie and Glasgow. It has been reported that the property was used as a look out during the Second World War, due to its uninterrupted views. Boasting approximately 4,000 square feet of accommodation, the property retains a wealth of original features and is entered initially via a sandstone arched entrance into a vestibule; leading to a spacious and bright hallway with a beautiful staircase. The ground floor accommodation comprises; front facing sitting room with large window and stylish cornicing, formal lounge with double aspects to the rear and side of the property and beautiful box bay window to the rear featuring the original sash and case windows with door allowing access onto the rear garden patio. In addition, there is cornicing and a stunning fireplace within a media wall. The delightful dining room, also with box bay window, retains the original sash and case window providing spectacular views. The light and bright dining kitchen has traditional Shaker style units painted in matt grey, complemented by a black granite worktop incorporating integrated appliances including a Russell Hobbs microwave, Britannia gas cooker with double oven and six burner hob, extractor fan and dishwasher. Off the kitchen, there is a spacious utility room with additional storage units and ample space for further appliances. The utility room also provides access to the side garden. Completing the ground floor accommodation, there is an under stair cupboard, cloakroom and WC. An attractive staircase leads to a galleried landing past two tall leaded glass windows on the mid landing and provides access to four good sized double bedrooms, all of which having fantastic views. The impressive principal bedroom is a fabulous size and features a large three pane window and four piece en-suite with under floor heating, walk-in shower, sink with vanity units at either side and separate bath. The additional three bedrooms are all spacious and bright, with ample space for bedroom furniture and large windows allowing natural light to flood in. A stunning family bathroom with full length lead window and beautiful free standing bath along with separate walk-in shower completes the accommodation on this floor. A fixed staircase leads to a third floor which hosts a fifth bedroom with fitted wardrobes and breath-taking views, a bathroom, large storage cupboard, currently being utilised as a home office space and an exceptional games room. The games room has a fitted bar area including sink, wine cooler and matt navy units complemented by a white quartz worktop. The room has views from 3 distinct vantage points and features window seats along with six Velux windows offering spectacular views over Milngavie, the Kilpatrick Hills and Glasgow. Additional storage is available within the eaves. The property has gas central heating and is partially double glazed. Externally, there are two separate gated and pillared entrances with a gravel driveway to both the front and side leading to a large garage for additional storage. The stunning private and enclosed west facing rear garden grounds enjoy the sun all day and into the evening. There is a patio area ideal for placing garden furniture with steps leading down to an expanse of lawn surrounded by hedge and trees. There is also a useful garden shed and a gate that provides access to the front of the property. From the rear garden you can also get access to the full height basement level which has power and light installed. EER Band - D Local Area The property is extremely well placed for an extensive array of local amenities. Milngavie's pedestrianised town centre provides a wide selection of facilities and services, including banks, Post Office, restaurants, Marks & Spencer's Food Hall and Waitrose which is located in West Retail Park. Lennox Park lies near the centre of Milngavie and further recreational pursuits include a choice of sports centres/gyms, including the newly rebuilt Allander Sports centre, Nuffield Health Fitness & Wellbeing Gym, tennis and bowling clubs and an array of reputable golf clubs. Milngavie is home to the starting point of The West Highland Way with further walking and cycling trails close at hand in nearby Mugdock Country Park and around the Allander and Craigmaddie Reservoirs. Milngavie train station offers frequent trains to Glasgow's West End and City Centre, along with a direct service to Edinburgh. Travel Directions Sat Nav - Dumgoyne , 10 Briarwell Road, Milngavie, G62 6AW Brochures Web Details Read more Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Dumgoyne, 10 Briarwell Road, Milngavie, G62 6AQ Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Milngavie Station 0.3 miles Hillfoot Station 1.5 miles Bearsden Station 1.9 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Corum, Bearsden 4 Canniesburn Toll, Bearsden, Glasgow, G61 2QU Experience the difference Once, estate agents were estate agents. Nowadays, they're often lawyers, mortgage brokers and letting agents too - but not at Corum. We work exclusively in estate agency, meaning we devote 100% of our time doing what our customers want: securing the best price for their property. The agency's original founding partners worked together at one of the largest estate agencies in the country, until a company takeover led to a wholesale focus on Financial Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Corum, Bearsden 4 Canniesburn Toll, Bearsden, Glasgow, G61 2QU More properties from this agent Call agent : 0141 673 6376 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference BD3529. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Corum, Bearsden . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0141 673 6376 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho