Search Britannica Click here to search Browse Dictionary Quizzes Money Video Login Subscribe Subscribe Entertainment & Pop Culture Geography & Travel Health & Medicine Lifestyles & Social Issues Literature Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Science Sports & Recreation Technology Visual Arts World History On This Day in History Quizzes Podcasts Dictionary Biographies Summaries Top Questions Infographics Demystified Lists #WTFact Companions Image Galleries Spotlight The Forum One Good Fact Entertainment & Pop Culture Geography & Travel Health & Medicine Lifestyles & Social Issues Literature Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Science Sports & Recreation Technology Visual Arts World History Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. This Time in History In these videos, find out what happened this month (or any month!) in history. Student Portal Britannica is the ultimate student resource for key school subjects like history, government, literature, and more. COVID-19 Portal While this global health crisis continues to evolve, it can be useful to look to past pandemics to better understand how to respond today. 100 Women Britannica celebrates the centennial of the Nineteenth Amendment, highlighting suffragists and history-making politicians. Saving Earth Britannica Presents Earth’s To-Do List for the 21st Century. Learn about the major environmental problems facing our planet and what can be done about them! SpaceNext50 Britannica presents SpaceNext50, From the race to the Moon to space stewardship, we explore a wide range of subjects that feed our curiosity about space! keel Table of Contents keel Table of Contents Introduction Fast Facts Related Content Quizzes Sail Away: Vocabulary at Sea Quiz Media Images More More Articles On This Topic Contributors Article History Home Technology Cars & Other Vehicles keel ship part Actions Cite verified Cite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook Twitter URL https://www.britannica.com/technology/keel-ship-part Give Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites How Stuff Works - Adventure - Sailboat Keel Print Cite verified Cite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook Twitter URL https://www.britannica.com/technology/keel-ship-part Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites How Stuff Works - Adventure - Sailboat Keel Written and fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Article History Table of Contents keel See all media Related Topics: fin keel full keel bilge keel centreboard skeg ... (Show more) See all related content → keel , in shipbuilding , the main structural member and backbone of a ship or boat , running longitudinally along the centre of the bottom of the hull from stem to stern. It may be made of timber, metal, or other strong, stiff material. Traditionally it constituted the principal member to which the ribs were attached on each side and to which the stem and sternpost were also attached. Another type of main keel—properly, the “ full keel ,” or “ballast keel”—is a vertical downward extension of the boat’s hull, narrowly V-shaped; it is usually ballasted or weighted for stability and lateral resistance. The backbone keel may be supplemented by other keels ( see Figure ). A “centreboard”—also called a drop keel , or sliding keel—is a retractable keel midships that may be lowered to increase lateral resistance and prevent sideslip. A “ skeg ” is an aftward extension of the keel intended to keep the boat moving straight and to protect the propeller and rudder from underwater obstructions. A “ fin keel ” is a narrow plate (of wood, metal, or other material) fixed midships to the keel of a shallow boat (such as a racing yacht) and projecting downward to provide lateral resistance. It is intended both to steady the boat and to make it handy to steer. A “ bilge keel ” is one of a pair of longitudinal plates that, like fins, project from the sides of a ship or boat and run parallel to the centre keel. They are intended to check rolling. On large ships the outward projections of the bilge keels may be slight; on small yachts they may be comparatively deep. Britannica Quiz Sail Away: Vocabulary at Sea Quiz