Skip to main content Conditions Addiction Abuse ADD-ADHD Alzheimer's Anxiety-Panic Bipolar Disorder Depression Diabetes Dissociative Disorder Eating Disorders Gender-GLBT OCD Related Disorders Neurodevelopmental Disorders Parenting Parkinson's Disease Personality Disorders PTSD and Stress Disorders Relationships Schizoaffective Disorder Schizophrenia Self-Help Self-Injury Sex-Sexuality Resources - Info Disorders Definitions Psychiatric Medications Mental Health Information Prescription Assistance Programs Resources-Hotlines Traumatic Events Suicide Sleep Disorders HealthyPlace Newsletter Transcripts Clinical Trials Insight Bookstore Mental Health Videos Mental Health Quotes Stand Up Campaign Mood Journal Blogs Psychological Tests About About Us How to Contact Us HealthyPlace Sitemap Tools Awards Information for Advertisers Advertising Policy Disclaimer Privacy Policy Terms of Use Login Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. advertisement In Domestic Violence In Domestic Violence + - Domestic Violence Homepage All Domestic Violence Articles What is Domestic Violence? Domestic Violence Signs Reporting Domestic Violence Effects of Domestic Violence Domestic Violence Help Domestic Violence Counseling Why Battered Wife Stays Domestic Violence Against Men Teen Dating Violence Types of Abuse Emotional Abuse Physical Abuse Rape Sexual Assault Verbal Abuse back to Abuse Homepage advertisement What Is Battering? Natasha Tracy Battering is also known by the term " domestic violence " and refers to acts of violence between two parties in an intimate relationship. Battering happens in heterosexual and homosexual relationships and either a male or a female can be the batterer or victim. Battering may occur in a marriage or in any other form of relationship. Batter Definition Battering is defined as an abusive act between two people and is never okay. Battering often coincides with psychological and sexual abuse. 1 1.5 million intimate partner rapes and physical assaults occur yearly against women 800,000 intimate partner rapes and physical assaults occur yearly against men What is the Danger of Battering? Battering is typically not a one-time event. Victims are normally battered many times by the same person. A 2000 survey showed that women are typically battered 6.9 times and men are battered 4.4 times by the same person. Moreover, the level of violence tends to increase as the battering continues. What may start out as a slap or a push may escalate into beating or worse. While most incidences of battering are at the less severe end of the scale, battering can, and does, sometimes result in death. In 2002, approximately 11% of homicide victims will killed by an intimate partner – three-quarters of these being women Children who witness the battering are also at great risk even if they, themselves, are not the victims of the physical violence. Girls who witness battering are more likely to grow up and be in battering relationships and boys are more likely to grow up into batterers themselves. (read Effects of Domestic Violence on Women and Children ) Battering also puts the victim at a major risk of homelessness with one study indicating that half of homeless women were fleeing batterers. In spite of the safety nets put in place, like battered women shelters and social services, battering victims still often find that they have nowhere to go. This may also result in them needing to leave the children with the batterers as they have no place to house their children. Who Gets Battered? Any man or woman in a relationship can be battered and batterers can come from any religious, racial or socioeconomic group. Women are at greater risk with women between the ages of 16 and 24 being at the highest risk in terms of age. (see Teenage Dating Violence ) Additionally, the greater the difference in age between the wife and the husband, the greater the risk of battering escalating into homicide. Pregnant women are also at high risk of battering. It may be the case that during this time their partner feels displaced in importance and so the battering increases. Four to eight percent of pregnant woman report being abused at least once during pregnancy. This can result in pregnancy complications and even the death of the fetus. A study in Maryland found that homicide was the leading cause of death among pregnant women, whereas, for non-pregnant women, it was the fifth leading cause. article references APA Reference Tracy, N. (2021, December 17). What Is Battering?, HealthyPlace. Retrieved on 2023, June 17 from https://www.healthyplace.com/abuse/domestic-violence/what-is-battering Last Updated: January 2, 2022 Medically reviewed by Harry Croft, MD Related Articles Effects of Domestic Violence, Domestic Abuse on Women and Children Cycle of Violence and Abuse and How to Break the Cycle of Abuse Domestic Violence Laws and Charges of Domestic Abuse Help for Battered Women: Where to Find It More Info The Impact of Parental Child Abduction Self-Harming Behavior, Self-injury Treatment Rape Fantasy: Does It Mean You Want to Be Raped? I'll Tell You Why People Cut Themselves Emotional-Psychological Abuse Articles The Relationship Between Eating Disorders and Self-Injury Marcus' Page Follow Us advertisement Popular Articles Conduct Disorder Interventions Help Conduct disorder interventions can help your child or teenager who has this diagnosis. Professionals at Johns Hopkins Medicine (n.d.) sort the behavior of kids with conduct disorder into four… Depression Quotes & Sayings That Capture Life with Depression Quotes and Sayings About Depression Depression quotes and sayings about depression can provide insight into what it's like living with depression as well as inspiration and a feeling of "someone gets it… How Do I Know If I Am Gay? Signs You Are Gay Particularly when young, some people may ask, "How do I know if I am gay?" if they have conflicting sexual feelings. When it comes down to it, there is no reliable "Am I Gay test", so the only way… 10 Ways People Self-Harm, Self-Injure The ways to self-harm are numerous. Self-harm, also known as self-injury or self-mutilation, is a coping mechanism used by a surprising number of people. Self-harm includes the stereotypical… Women's Top 10 Sexual Fantasies sexual fantasies Every woman on earth has fantasized about some explicit sexual fantasy that she may or may not have been too ashamed to talk about. Whether it's your girlfriend or your wife, this top ten… Rape Victim Stories: Real Stories of Being Raped Rape victim stories can be very difficult to read, frightening and emotionally draining for some but stories of rape show other victims that they are not alone in their struggles. Rape stories… Mental Health Newsletter advertisement Back To Top Conditions Conditions + - Abuse ADD-ADHD Addictions Alzheimer's Anxiety - Panic Bipolar Disorder Depression Diabetes Dissociative Disorder Eating Disorders Gender-GLBT Neurodevelopmental Disorders OCD Related Disorders Parkinson's Disease Personality Disorders PTSD and Stress Disorders Relationships Schizophrenia Self-Help Self-Injury Sex-Sexuality Schizoaffective Disorder Resources and Information Resources and Information + - Disorders Definitions Psychiatric Medications Mental Health Information Resources-Hotlines Suicide Information Psychological Tests Mood Journal Health On the Net Foundation This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here . Mental Health Awards Footer Footer + - Site Map About Us Contact Us Advertise Terms of Use Privacy Policy Disclaimer Advertising Policy × advertisement 2023 HealthyPlace Inc. All Rights Reserved. Site last updated June 17, 2023