Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 1 Land at Prestonfield Avenue, Edinburgh See map POA SIZE AVAILABLE 8,276 sq. ft. (769 sq. m.) SECTOR Land for sale Key features Site extending to approx. 0.19 acres (760 sq. m) in popular Edinburgh suburb Planning Permission Granted for 9 open market apartments Positioned adjacent to a bus stop with regular direct services into Edinburgh Property description The land for sale is located within Prestonfield, Edinburgh and extends to an approximate area of 0.19 acres / 760 sq. m. The residential development opportunity is positioned at the corner of Prestonfield Avenue and Priestfield Road. The site is currently open ground, previously occupied by a Church Hall. To the north of the site is Priestfield Road along which are detached family homes. To the east is a small triangular area of landscaped parkland. To the south is Prestonfield Avenue then a bowling green, community centre and Prestonfield Park. To the west is another community facility and detached housing. The site is located within Prestonfield, a predominantly residential suburb in south Edinburgh. The land is conveniently located approx. 3.5 km south east of Edinburgh city centre. The A7 (Dalkeith Road) can be joined around 500 metres west of the site providing direct a-road access north to central Edinburgh and south to The City of Edinburgh Bypass. A bus stop is positioned opposite the site providing regular direct public transport into the city centre via Lothian Bus services 2, 14 and 30. Read more Brochures Brochure 1 Floor Plan Floor Plan Land at Prestonfield Avenue, Edinburgh Open map Street View NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Edinburgh Waverley Station 1.8 miles Brunstane Station 2.3 miles Haymarket Station 2.4 miles About Savills, Edinburgh Savills, Wemyss House, 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH More properties from Savills, Edinburgh Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Savills, Edinburgh Savills, Wemyss House, 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH More properties from Savills, Edinburgh Call : 0131 381 6866 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference A0393DE3-33AE-4B10-915C-B96228E58262. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Savills, Edinburgh . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email Call Call : 0131 381 6866 Email Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho