Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 44 1 44 1 Kinnear Road, Edinburgh See map Offers Over £2,950,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Reduced on 07/06/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Semi-Detached BEDROOMS ×6 BATHROOMS ×4 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Property description Commanding a striking south facing position, 13 Kinnear Road offers the rare opportunity to acquire an exceptional six-bedroomed, semi-detached family home situated peacefully in one of Edinburgh’s most coveted residential addresses. This red sandstone B listed property was originally constructed as Jeffery House, an Edinburgh Academy boarding house in 1899. The property has been meticulously refurbished by the prestigious Lorn MacNeal Architects, and has been replumbed, rewired and re-roofed. Arranged over three levels, the property retains original features in its sash and case windows, carved timber balustrade with newel-posts, wrought iron balcony, and plasterwork paying homage to the property’s original purpose in the entrance vestibule. Presented to the market in immaculate condition, this impeccable family home is second to none and offers the epitome of Edinburgh living, effortlessly blending period features with modern interior. The property boasts a principal bedroom suite with walk in dressing room and luxury en suite, five further generously sized double bedrooms, a top-quality dining kitchen offering high specification integrated appliances, a magnificent south facing first floor drawing room benefiting from spectacular views over Edinburgh’s skyline and an interconnecting cinema room, equipped with a 115-inch screen with cinema hardware. Externally, the property benefits from an abundance of private outdoor space comprising a driveway with off-road parking for three vehicles and EV charging point, a front garden and enclosed landscaped rear garden largely laid to lawn with patio area. Situated in the highly desirable neighbourhood of Inverleith, Kinnear Road boasts a peaceful leafy position and lies within walking distance of the Royal Botanic Gardens and a wide range of local amenities in the popular neighbourhood of Stockbridge, renowned for its village atmosphere, abundant in restaurants, coffee shops, independent shops and bars. Summary of Accommodation: Ground Floor: Entrance Vestibule & Hall, Coat Cupboard & Media Server Room, WC, Gym/Guest Double Bedroom and en-suite Shower Room, Family Room, Home Working Alcove, Dining Kitchen with Direct Access to Landscaped South Facing Garden, Utility Room. First Floor: Drawing Room with Balcony Cinema Room with Integrated Butlers Sink, Fitted 115 Inch Screen & Integra Home Cinema Equipment Principal Bedroom Suite with Walk in Dressing Room & Luxury En Suite Bathroom Separate WC & Wash Hand Basin. Second Floor: Double Bedroom Three with Tri-partite Window & Built in Wardrobe, Double Bedroom Four with Fitted Seating Area in the Gable, Double Bedroom Five with Built in Wardrobe, Double Bedroom Six with Built in Wardrobe & Desk Laundry Room, Family Bathroom, Separate Shower Room. Private Outdoor Space: Driveway with Parking for Three Cars & EV Andersen Charging Point Front Garden Screened by Well-Kept Leafy Shrubbery Enclosed & Landscaped South Facing Rear Garden, Largely Laid to Lawn with Patio, Edged with Leafy Shrubbery and Well-Planted Floral Border Gas Central Heating CAT 5 Network, Full Wi-Fi Network, Remote CCTV System Fully Integrated Security System by SSS EPC: C Council Tax Band: H Tenure: Freehold. Viewing strictly by appointment via Rettie & Co. EPC Rating: C Council Tax Band: H Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Rating Graph Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Kinnear Road, Edinburgh Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Haymarket Station 1.6 miles Edinburgh Waverley Station 1.6 miles Slateford Station 3.0 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Rettie & Co, Edinburgh 11 Wemyss Place Edinburgh EH3 6DH Edinburgh's leading independent estate agency About Us Located in the heart of Edinburgh's New Town, the Rettie & Co. Head Office is set within a historic Georgian Townhouse. Our vibrant flagship office is home to more than 40 staff, including our Edinburgh sales, country house, farms & estates, development services and new homes sales teams. Dynamic Team of Local Experts Each of our teams based in Edinburgh offers unrivalled collective local knowledge a Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Rettie & Co, Edinburgh 11 Wemyss Place Edinburgh EH3 6DH More properties from this agent Call agent : 0131 381 1354 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference PER230441. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Rettie & Co, Edinburgh . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0131 381 1354 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho