Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 40 1 40 1 The Manse, Cambridge Grove, Monton See map Offers in Region of £1,400,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Reduced on 25/05/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×6 BATHROOMS ×4 SIZE 4,794 sq. ft. (445 sq. m.) TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Beautiful, unique building Six bedrooms Four bathrooms Five reception rooms Stunning, mature gardens Transport links close by Flexible accommodation An abundance of parking options Part exchange considered Close to Monton Village Property description Take a look at this breathtakingly unique home, sat proudly on a substantial plot on a beautiful leafy grove in Eccles. Built around 1860, with just one owner since 1985, this stunning building has been utilised as a home and a nursery since then and is now on the market to give a family a rare opportunity to acquire the most exceptional and impressive home. Spanning four floors and offering approximately 4800 square feet of accommodation, this freehold property is the perfect blank canvas with heaps of versatility and flexibility to use the rooms however you see fit to create your ideal home. This building is also, surprisingly, unlisted, making the changes you may desire to make much simpler to bring to life! This home boasts six bedrooms, two of which have been knocked through to create an enormous master suite, a huge basement area, five reception rooms and four plumbed rooms which could be easily transformed into exquisite family bathrooms and ensuites. The options with this truly majestic home are endless. Step through the beautifully- grand entrance to explore what the ground floor has to offer. First up is the most impressively sized room which would make the most phenomenal lounge, along with three further reception rooms, a kitchen and a bathroom. The kitchen has the potential to be moved to the adjacent reception room to create a larger, more inviting and grand kitchen/dining area with an island and plenty of cupboard space. There is a conservatory just off this room which would make the most perfect breakfast area overlooking the beautiful gardens beyond. The current kitchen could then be converted into a much-needed utility room and/or a larder. Head down the stairs to a full-sized head-height high quality basement conversion, kitted out with a bathroom, emergency lighting, fire system, plenty of natural light and its own separate entrance, making a fantastic base for a plethora of different uses, whether it be a self-contained apartment, large office suite, or even extra space for the family to make use of - maybe a games room or a cinema room for entertaining family and friends! The current owners have invested heavily in this area of the property to ensure it is built to last. Up on the first floor, you are greeted by the most magnificent room which would make an enviable master suite, previously two rooms, there are two large windows providing dual aspect allowing an abundance of natural light to flood into the space. This floor also comprises a family sized bathroom that could be kept as such, or converted into an impressive master ensuite, along with space for a walk in wardrobe, and two further large bedrooms, both of which have the tools in place to easily add ensuite shower rooms. The world really is your oyster with this property. Take the stairs up to the second and final floor in this property, where you will discover a further two bedrooms, one of which is currently being used as an office, and the other has an ensuite WC which wouldn’t take much to convert to a full shower room. There is also a little kitchenette just off the landing meaning you wouldn’t have to venture all the way downstairs for your morning brew! The outside space this property offers is truly something to write home about. The mature gardens surround the property at every angle, meaning that there will never be a time during the day when a part of the garden is not soaked in sunshine. The gardens boast extensive, ornate shrubbery as well as professionally maintained cherry trees that blossom beautifully come the springtime. The current owner has also installed a two-metre wall to provide privacy from the adjoining property. With a large brick-built double garage with space for two cars, along with a further adjoining 20ft long garage and a large driveway, there will never be a family member or a friend stuck for a parking space! The current owner has also installed outside lighting which makes the property look striking come the night-time, as well as a CCTV system. With a slate roof, the original chimney, and walls of stunning Yorkshire stone, this building sits gloriously within its spectacular surroundings. With no chain involved, this is a unique opportunity to obtain a stunning home in a desirable location. This property is just a short walk into Monton Village, home to an abundance of bars, restaurants and shops, including the essentials such as a post office, a bank and a pharmacy! Transport links are very close by, too, with Eccles Train Station being just a two minute walk away, and the bus station and tram station are around a five minute walk away. The motorway network is also around a minutes’ drive away, for those needing to commute into the City Centre, MediaCityUK or travel further afield. This property is certainly not one to miss! If you have any questions or want to book a viewing, please contact our Monton branch! Important Notice - These particulars are not intended to nor do they form a contract or any part of a contract. We have taken care to describe and measure this property correctly but we do not warrant the accuracy of these particulars. Prospective purchasers should not rely upon the measurements in these particulars for any purpose. We have not tested any of the installations, appliances or systems at the property; including heating systems and appliances, gas fires, and the electrical and gas installations, accordingly we cannot warrant that these or other installations or systems at the property are in working order, properly maintained, safe to use or fit for purpose. We have not checked whether the property is connected to utility services, including mains gas, water, electricity, telephone, cable services, drainage, sewerage and so forth, nor whether such utility services are adequate or available at the property, accordingly the purchaser should take appropriate advice and satisfy themselves of these matters. Carpets, floor coverings, curtains, blinds, domestic or other equipment, satellite receiving equipment and movable items that may be in or on the property when inspected by the purchaser or their agents, are not included in the sale unless set down in the contract for sale. Additional Information - Tenure: Freehold Length of Lease Remaining: N/A Annual Ground Rent: N/A Ground Rent Review Period: N/A Annual Service Charge: N/A Service Charge Review Period: N/A Council Tax Band: B EPC Rating: TBC Ownership Amount: 100% Brochures The Manse, Cambridge Grove, Monton Read more Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: G The Manse, Cambridge Grove, Monton Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Eccles Station 0.2 miles Eccles Tram Stop 0.3 miles Ladywell Tram Stop 0.4 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Ascend, Monton 192 Monton Road, Eccles, Manchester, M30 9PY Moving is a busy and exciting time and we're here to make sure the experience goes as smoothly as possible by giving you all the help you need under one roof. The company has always used computer and internet technology, but the company's biggest strength is the genuinely warm, friendly and professional approach that we offer all of our clients. Our record of success has been built upon a single-minded desire to provide our clients, with a top class personal service delivered by h Read more More properties from this agent Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Ascend, Monton 192 Monton Road, Eccles, Manchester, M30 9PY More properties from this agent Call agent : 0161 524 4953 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 32249002. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Ascend, Monton . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0161 524 4953 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho