Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 2 NEW HOME Mount Vernon Avenue, Glasgow, G32 See map £2,000,000 PROPERTY TYPE Land Property description ***DEVELOPMENT LAND*** The site is 1.6 acres of land in a popular location on the outskirts of Glasgow. The area is on Hamilton Road, between Uddingston and Mount Vernon. A pre-application has been submitted for 38 two bedroom apartments and 5 x commercial units. This site is ideally located for shopping, commuting, schools and leisure – all the essential aspects of family life. The Birkenshaw Estate is 2.5 miles away, the Forge Shopping Centre is a four mile journey, with Glasgow Fort six miles away. Glasgow city centre can be reached in twenty minutes either by car or by train from Baillieston or Mount Vernon stations, which are within walking distance of the site. Quick and easy access to the motorway network also brings Stirling and Edinburgh within reach. Sporting, leisure and recreational pursuits abound, from gym to football, golf to bowling and running to cycling, the area has something for everyone. Schooling for all ages is to hand along with a number of outstanding universities. SEE ATTACHED BROCHURE FOR FURTHER DETAILS Brochures Particulars Read more Mount Vernon Avenue, Glasgow, G32 Approximate location Open map Street View NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Mount Vernon Station 0.1 miles Baillieston Station 0.8 miles Garrowhill Station 1.0 miles About the agent Countrywide, Baillieston 1 Barrachnie Road, Baillieston, Glasgow, Lanarkshire, G69 6HP Our Baillieston branch at No 1 Barrachnie Road is located on a busy crossroads, which leads directly into the popular districts of Mount Vernon, Garrowhill, Baillieston and Sandyhills. The branch has served the local and wider community since 1997, with the current staff having a collective 40+ years' local experience and over 100 years industry experience, and enjoys being the preferred agent time and time again by returning clients over the years within the core areas covered by the b Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Countrywide, Baillieston 1 Barrachnie Road, Baillieston, Glasgow, Lanarkshire, G69 6HP More properties from this agent Call agent : 0141 673 3402 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference AQP230037. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Countrywide, Baillieston . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0141 673 3402 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho