Search Report a repair Contact us My Move Account Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Sell Property valuation Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Local Sold House Prices Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Looking to move? Get your property valuation Get your conveyancing solicitor Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations How much can I afford? - use our budget planner and find out Something need fixing - Report a repair Landlords Rental valuation Book an accurate lettings valuation Get an instant online valuation Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations Looking to let? Get your property valuation Get your property managed New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Mortgages Mortgage Services Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Book your mortgage appointment About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection Branches Sales Amersham Hazlemere and Great Missenden High Wycombe Princes Risborough Land & New Homes Lettings Amersham High Wycombe Princes Risborough Fine & Country Fine & Country South Buckinghamshire Other departments Sales Progression Property Management JNP Handyman Services Head Office xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? My Move xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Branches xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Report a repair - Fixflo Branches Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Sell Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Local Sold House Prices Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Existing tenants Report a maintenance issue What to do in an emergency Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations Landlords Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Mortgages Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Careers About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection You're in control We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. To learn more about how we use cookies, please see our Cookie Policy . You can manage your preferences now on this banner, or via your browser at anytime. Functional Active Inactive Analytical Active Inactive Non-essential Active Inactive Manage Accept Home Rent Tenant guides Moving into a rental property Moving into a rental property Tenant guides First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Damp, mould and condensation Maintenance tips for your rental property What to do if there is an emergency in your rental property Preventing rental fraud Moving into a rental property Moving house is a significant event and can be an emotionally strenuous process, whether you’re leaving friends and family behind or making changes to your routine - not to mention the physical effort required to move your belongings from one place to another! Taking time to get as organised as possible can help minimise the stress. Our useful guide provides some practical pointers about key aspects of the process to help make moving into your new home as pleasant as possible. Packing and planning Allow yourself plenty of time to pack your belongings and get ready to move. Moving is a great time to have a clear-out and get rid of things you don’t want or need anymore. It’s worth collecting boxes and other packaging material in advance to help protect your more fragile items. Clear your schedule and pick a moving day (or days!) that suit you where possible. You’ll avoid unnecessary extra stress if moving house is the only thing you have to worry about. Contents Insurance As you are renting, you will not be required to have buildings insurance. However, you will need to purchase contents insurance to cover your personal belongings, including any household appliances that you bring with you. Your landlord’s insurance will cover their own property and belongings. Utility Providers and Council Tax Ensure your post and bills get sent to your new address by using a standard letter or email to notify utility companies, your bank, doctor’s surgery, employer, the DVLA etc. that you are moving. You could also set up a postal re-direct with Royal Mail to minimise the chances of your post going astray. Call the utility companies and local council at your new home as soon as possible to set up your accounts and provide any meter readings they need. This will ensure there is no delay with your bill. Some agents provide this as part of their service to tenants, so check what’s available with them. They may ask that you call back to supply them with an opening meter reading once you have moved in. Inventory & Schedule of Condition In most cases, your landlord will arrange to have an independent inventory made prior to you moving in. If this is the case, we will send a copy to you once we receive it. This important document will be used for any deposit negotiation at the end of your tenancy, so make sure you make any necessary amendments or adjustments then sign and return it to us within 7 days. Smoke and Carbon Monoxide (CO) Alarms All rented properties must have smoke alarms fitted on each floor of the living accommodation and CO alarms in any room where there is a solid fuel burning appliance (wood, coal etc.) We, or our appointed contractor, will visit on the day you move in to check and test that these alarms are in working order. During your tenancy it is your responsibility to periodically test and replace any batteries within the smoke or CO alarms. We recommend you test them monthly as a minimum to ensure that they are in working order. If you find an alarm is not working, and changing the batteries does not rectify this, you should notify us immediately so that we can arrange a replacement. Payment of rent You are required to pay your rent in cleared funds by standing order each month, so be sure to complete the form provided to set this up (provided with your Tenancy Agreement) and send to your bank. Banks will only take an instruction from you and we cannot set it up for you. Alternatively, you can also set this up online using the account details and the reference provided. Hopefully these points will help you tick off most of the important tasks so you can focus on getting settled in your new home. Previous - Tips for viewing a rental property Next - Preventing rental fraud Useful information for tenants Why rent with us Find out more about renting through JNP Permitted payments Read through our fees and permitted payment How much can you afford? Use our budget calculator to see how much rent you can afford. Useful information for tenants Find out more about renting xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"? Permitted payments Budget planner Book a valuation Contact your local branch My Move account Buy Find Property For Sale Land & New Homes Buying Calculators Rent Find Property To Rent Permitted payments Report a repair Sell Sell your property with us Book a property valuation Get an instant valuation Landlords Landlord services Service options & Fees Guides for landlords Services Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Helpful Links Careers Branches Privacy Notice Legal Information Accessibility Cookie Policy VAT Complaints Procedure Client Money Protection Anti Money Laundering information xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? JNP is a trading name, independently owned and operated under licence from LSLi Limited by AIG (KH) Ltd (company number 14772222), registered in England at 5 Brooklands Place, Brooklands Road, Sale, Cheshire, England, M33 3SD. Also trading as Fine & Country. We may refer you to recommended providers of ancillary services such as Conveyancing, Financial Services, Insurance and Surveying. We may receive a commission payment fee or other benefit (known as a referral fee) for recommending their services. You are not under any obligation to use the services of the recommended provider. The ancillary service provider may be an associated company of JNP.