Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 18 1 18 1 ONLINE VIEWING Harborne Road, Edgbaston See map £1,550,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 12/06/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×4 SIZE 4,126 sq. ft. (383 sq. m.) TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Detached home Over 4000 square feet Five bedrooms Four bath/shower rooms Double and single garages Large rear garden Four reception rooms Conservatory Huge potential Freehold Property description A substantial five bedroom four bathroom detached family home in a much sought after Edgbaston location. This property boasts over 4000 sq ft of accommodation including four reception rooms, kitchen and conservatory with large rear garden and the luxury of sweeping front driveway and garages. Property - McHugo Homes are proud to present and introduce you to a substantial five bedroom detached family home in a much sought after prime Edgbaston location. A fine residential home, this property boasts over 4000 sq ft of accommodation with beautiful character features befitting of its era together with popular traits such as tall ceilings and large windows allowing swathes of natural light, as potential suitors will also be keen to hear that further modernisation could significantly enhance. The property lays host to ground floor accommodation of breakfast kitchen, four reception rooms, welcoming entrance hallway, conservatory and downstairs WC, with first floor offering three ensuites and family bathroom to complement five well proportioned bedrooms and impressive landing area. Further features included gas central heating and part double glazing. Externally includes a vast rear garden and the luxury of sweeping front driveway and garages. Area - Harborne Road is one of Birmingham and indeed region's most prominent and sought after avenues, situated in a central Edgbaston location, within the prestigious Calthorpe Estate, an urban conservation area, committed to preserving the quality and original character of the area, on the very cusp of Birmingham city centre. The property is very short walk to the attractive boutiques and shopping provision of Edgbaston Village, and the city beyond, plus amenities of Harborne High Street, including Marks & Spencers Food hall and Waitrose, along with a plethora of independent restaurants and eateries. Queen Elizabeth hospital, Birmingham University and Medical Quarter are within easy reach, whilst very accessible to A38 links to M6 motorway and Birmingham International Airport. Excellent primary secondary and prep schools are very close by such as the popular Chad Vale Primary school, but also near to Edgbaston High School for Girls, The Priory School and The King Edward Foundation Schools, along with Hallfield Preparatory School, West House, The Blue Coat and St George's Schools. Leisure facilities are provided with The Edgbaston Priory Tennis and Squash club-host to prestigious tennis events, Edgbaston Golf club nearby, with world renowned Edgbaston cricket ground the home of international cricket tournaments. Recreational facilities such as Botanical Gardens and Martineau Gardens are a short walk. Approach - Electric operated gates, shrubbery and tree lined boundaries, front garden laid to lawn, sweeping brick paved driveway. Entrance Hall - A porch leads into grand entrance hall, with wooden clad walls, three wall light points, radiator, ceiling beams making for coffered detailing, wooden flooring, carpeted stairs lead to first floor with doors to: Living Room - Double glazed bay window, inglenook fireplace with gas fire, wooden mantle surround and stained glass windows, wooden flooring, beams to ceiling with decorative cornice, two radiators, power points., four light points. Billiard Room - Front facing double glazed window, with bay seating, radiator, power points, carpeted. Sitting Room - Wooden flooring, recessed fireplace, two radiators, TV point, wooden framed windows and double doors into conservatory, four wall light points, ceiling coving. Conservatory - Double glazed windows with French doors leading to garden, pitched ceiling, door to living room. Dining Room - Front facing windows, carpeted, ceiling coving, radiator. Breakfast Kitchen - Range of wall and base mounted units, ample worktop space, fitted appliances of 'Hotpoint' double oven, 'Samsung' four ring gas hob, 'Hotpoint' dishwasher, windows with side and rear garden aspect, two radiators, three ceiling light points, power points, door to side lean to. Lean To/Utility - Offering access to boiler cupboard, utility area with sink and plumbing for washing machine, plus store and further WC. Wc - Pedestal sink, low level WC, wall light point, radiator, access to understairs storage. First Floor Landing - Carpeted, ceiling light point, loft access and doors to: Bedroom One - Fitted wardrobes, carpeted, inglenook hosting two stained glass windows with secondary glazing, double glazed bay window with garden aspect, ceiling light point, door to ensuite. Ensuite Shower Room - Accessed from two bedrooms, fully tiled, shower cubicle, wash hand basin within vanity unit, low level WC, two recessed ceiling down lighters and flush light, heated towel rail. Bedroom Two - Double glazed windows with rear garden aspect, fitted wardrobes, carpeted, ceiling light point and coving, two radiators, power points. Ensuite Bathroom - Matching suite of corner bath, low level WC, bidet and double sink within vanity unit, ceiling strip light and two wall light points, obscure double glazed window. Bedroom Three - Bedroom Four - Front facing window, radiator, ceiling light point, doors to store and ensuite. Ensuite Shower Room - Fully tiled, fitted shower within recess, low level WC, wash hand basin within vanity unit, ceiling flush light, obscure double glazed window. Bedroom Five - Front facing window with secondary glazing, carpeted, ceiling light point, fitted wardrobes. Store - Flexible room, two radiators, ceiling light point and skylight, hosts eaves storage. Family Bathroom - Fully tiled, obscure glazed window, low level WC, jacuzzi bath with shower fittings above, wash hand basin within vanity unit, ceiling flush light, heated towel rail. Garages - Double garage with electric up and over door, hosting fuseboards, power supply and double opening rear doors, adjacent to single garage with up and over door. Rear Garden - Mature and established tree lined borders with flower beds and shrubbery, predominantly laid to lawn, paved patio area, fencing to boundaries. TENURE: FREEHOLD COUNCIL TAX BAND: H EPC; C Disclaimer - With approximate measurements these particulars have been prepared in good faith by the selling agent in conjunction with the vendor(s) with the intention of providing a fair and accurate guide to the property. However, they do not constitute or form part of an offer or contract nor may they be regarded as representations, all interested parties must themselves verify their accuracy. No tests or checks have been carried out in respect of heating, plumbing, electric installations or any type of appliances which may be included. Brochures Harborne Road, Edgbaston Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EE Rating Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Harborne Road, Edgbaston Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Five Ways Station 0.6 miles Birmingham New Street Station 1.3 miles University Station 1.3 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent McHugo Homes, Birmingham C/O Abacus Court Bull Street, Harborne, Birmingham, B17 0HH About McHugo Homes McHugo Homes is founded by myself, Andy Mchugo. I offer a personal and bespoke service dedicated to selling property for my clients, assisting both buyers and sellers move home within Harborne, Quinton and Halesowen. Approach With a wealth of property knowledge in the local area, my passion is helping people move home. In my opinion these are two vital characteristics you need in an exceptional Estate Agent. My approach is ultra profess Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY McHugo Homes, Birmingham C/O Abacus Court Bull Street, Harborne, Birmingham, B17 0HH More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 387 6796 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 32385304. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by McHugo Homes, Birmingham . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 387 6796 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho