Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. Find out more Manage cookies Allow all cookies Manage Cookies Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. For more information about how we and our partners use cookies on our site, see our Cookie Policy Strictly necessary These cookies are necessary for the Savills website to function. Examples of this include: setting your privacy preferences, logging in to your Savills account, or filling in forms. Though these cookies cannot be switched off, you can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but please be aware that this will stop some parts of the Savills website from functioning as intended. Find out more about strictly necessary cookies here . Always allowed Functional cookies These cookies are used to enhance the performance of the Savills website, as without them certain functions of the website may not be available. While they are not vital for the website to run, they allow us to remember important information and your preferences such as previous location searches. Find out more about functional cookies here . Allow Targeting & tracking These cookies record your activity on the Savills website and our partners may use that information to show you adverts that they think you will be most interested in when you visit other websites. We may also use information recorded by these cookies to see how well these adverts are performing. Find out more about targeting and tracking cookies here . Allow Save and close Allow all cookies Location and Language Selection Close United Kingdom Location Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe United Kingdom Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe Language English English English Book a valuation Search Close Site Search: Search My Account Menu Menu > Find a property > Market your property > Find a service > Why Savills > Insight & Opinion > Contact us Close Find a property Find a property Whether buying a townhouse or selling a country cottage, leasing corporate office space or renting farmland, our experts make it their business to understand your needs and help you find the right property. Search for a property Residential Search for a residential property Buy a property in London Rent a property in London New homes for sale Properties in Europe Properties in the Caribbean Properties in the US Properties in Asia Pacific Properties in The Alps Farms & Estates Search for rural property Farms for sale Estates for sale Equestrian property for sale Commercial Search for a commercial property Offices to lease in the UK Development land for sale in the UK Retail properties Industrial properties to lease Leisure properties for sale Hotels for sale Flexible office space Investment properties for sale Residential investment Student housing investment Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert What's your property worth? Get expert advice for residential, commercial or rural property, grounded in our experience and knowledge of local, regional and international markets. Arrange a market appraisal Property auctions As one of the UK’s leading auction houses, we offer a large selection of residential and commercial property for sale by auction. More Information Where are residential property sales holding up the strongest? Residential Sales 31 May 2023 We forecast that limited mortgage availability and high interest rates would see home buying activity levels fall in 2023. Read this article Market your property Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an agent Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Market your property Whether you're planning to sell, rent or are undecided, we have an expert who can help. More Information Selling a Residential Property Letting a Residential Property Auctioning a Property Selling a Mews Property Selling New-Build Property Selling International Property Selling a Farm Selling a Fishing Beat Selling a Forest or Woodland Selling a Quarry or Waste Management Facility Selling a Shoot Selling an Estate Selling Country Property Selling Equestrian Property Selling Waterfront Property Interior, Furnishing and Refurbishment Services Private Office Selling Commercial Property Selling Healthcare Property Selling Leisure or Trade-Related Property Real Estate Insights Podcast: Impacts 2023: what is the purpose of property? Research 7 June 2023 Our latest podcast discusses how financial, environmental and social purposes intersect, and how they can be measured, as well as unveiling some of the key findings to emerge from this year’s Impacts publication. Read this article Find a service Find a service Savills offers a wide range of specialist services from financial and investment advice to valuation, planning and property management. More Information Asset Management Auctions Buying or Selling Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Private Office Property Management Research Savills Earth (ESG Consulting) Valuation Browse by sector Our services cover a broad range of property sectors. More Information Affordable Housing Auctions Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food & Farming Forestry Healthcare High St/In Town Retail Hotels Industrial & Logistics Infrastructure Leisure Marine Minerals & Commodities Mixed Use Office & Business Space Operational Capital Markets Out of Town Retail Public Sector Pubs, Bars & Restaurants Residential Residential Investment & Development Residential Development Sales Retail Rural Science & Technology Senior Living Serviced Offices Shopping Centres Trade-Related Sports Venues Student Accommodation Telecoms Utilities Visitor Attractions Vineyards Waste Management Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Find your nearest office With over 40,000 people working across more than 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Why Savills Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise spans the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East. More Information How we work Our integrity, honesty and professionalism is what gives our clients, colleagues, investors and business partners the confidence to work with us. More Information Innovation and technology Savills is at the forefront of exploring and developing new capabilities, bringing together people and technology to push boundaries and take real estate to a new level. More Information Awards Over the years we have been recognised as ‘best in class’ in a diverse range of disciplines. More Information Sustainability & ESG Savills UK sustainability strategy aims to achieve a positive impact on the environment and society, whilst maintaining robust governance measures. More Information Investor relations Savills Plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange within the FTSE250 index. Our annual reports and investor updates can be found online. Visit our Investor Relations site Diversity & Inclusion Savills is committed to eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity amongst our workforce. More information Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion is our hub for residential, commercial and rural articles and research from experts offering industry-leading advice and analysis. Research In-depth research and analysis into property market trends, forecasts from our specialist research teams, and market-leading commentary to help you make the right property decisions. Browse our market research Subscribe to Savills Research Residential reports Residential forecasts Office reports Retail reports Rural reports Residential property prices and trends ESG Research Industrial reports Residential development & investment Savills Indices Research services Webinars The Savills Blog The latest UK and international property market news and opinions, plus helpful guides and top tips from our renowned industry experts. Read the Savills Blog Savills News Up-to-the-minute news from our press teams providing the latest developments within Savills, and across the property industry. Read our press releases Savills Podcasts Keep yourself informed on the ‘real’ behind the real estate headlines, our podcast brings you engaging and insightful discussion with experts across our global business on the issues that matter most in property. Listen to the podcasts Portfolio by Savills Portfolio by Savills seamlessly blends the latest trends, inspirational lifestyle content, and the world’s finest properties with the expert insight and analysis you would expect from Savills. Portfolio has property at its heart, and we’d like you to be part of it. Explore Portfolio by Savills Contact us Find an office With over 40,000 people working across 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Our offices by region London East of England East Midlands North East North West South East South West West Midlands Yorkshire & The Humber Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Channel Islands Find a person Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Careers with Savills At Savills, our most valuable resource is our people. We are known for our positive, entrepreneurial culture, and for attracting some of the most innovative, dedicated and knowledgeable people in the business. More Information Current Vacancies General enquiries We're here to provide you with more information, answer any questions you may have, or connect you with the right people to help with your needs. Use our general enquiry form to get in touch today. Speak to the team 6 of the best...Former rectories Residential Sales 9 June 2023 From the recently renovated to the classically stylish, featured here are a few of our favourite examples currently on the market. Read this article > Home Consultancy Savills Earth - Energy & Sustainability Details Contacts & Related Articles Contact the team Savills Earth provides a wide-ranging team of experts to help our clients define and deliver the very best sustainability strategies across their property portfolios. Savills Earth allies its breadth of service with cross-sector expertise derived from our 165-year history and our global network of over 700 offices. As a consequence, we understand that every client will have specific requirements and objectives it wants to achieve in establishing sustainably-sound business practices. Through practical advice we support clients to develop strategies and working practices that turn sustainability targets and commitments into reality and embrace the change needed to improve the effects that property has on the planet. How we can help To see how we can help you with your sustainability and carbon strategies, please click below. Sustainable design The built environment is responsible for around 40% of the emissions that the UK is looking to eradicate by 2050. How we build, maintain and operate our buildings is changing in response to the challenge of reaching net zero. From citywide masterplans to individual plots, Savills Earth uses our expertise to shape sustainable new development and create new futures for existing buildings. Energy infrastructure As we move towards a net zero economy, the transition to the electrification of heat and transport is expected to drive a doubling of energy demand over the next 30 years. That demand will need to be met by low carbon generation and energy storage technologies. Considered planning and investment in infrastructure is essential to generate, distribute and supply the low carbon electricity that will be needed on a national, local and site specific basis. Strategic advisory, impact assessment and reporting Businesses are coming under increased pressure to look beyond the purely financial and to consider the wider impacts that they have on the environment and society. Doing this effectively has made adopting robust approaches to impact measurement and management more important than ever. Savills has a dedicated team of Impact Analysis professionals who advise on impact measurement and management, strategic advisory and corporate reporting. Offsetting and environmental land management Natural capital is changing how land is managed in the UK. Our specialist team can offer expert market insight into the emergence of private natural capital markets and analysis on the future of agri-environmental policy that is increasingly underpinned by natural capital thinking. Operational sustainability support Environmental Social Governance (ESG) and sustainability are at the top of the agenda for many organisations as increasing legislation, enhanced stakeholder concern and requirements for transparency and disclosure continue to develop. It is essential that organisations understand both the risks and opportunities of embracing and effectively managing ESG to deliver on continual improvement. Find out more about our sustainability consultancy services . Social Value Understanding the opportunities and impacts for society and its stakeholders are increasingly becoming a dominant consideration in decision making within real estate ESG requirements. The process of how this can be achieved is an ever-changing landscape, often difficult to navigate throughout the investment and development cycle. Savills Earth now provides a specialist function that focuses on the intricacies of delivering the ‘social’ of ESG through strategic and reporting advice. Key Contacts David Jackson Head of Planning and Savills Earth Head Office London +44 (0) 20 7420 6371 Contact Now Nick Green Director Savills Earth Head Office London +44 (0) 7968 550378 Contact Now Chris Cummings Director Savills Earth Finsbury Circus House Contact Now Tanya Broadfield Director Sustainability Finsbury Circus House +44 (0) 207 578 7526 Contact Now Wesley Ankrah Director Social Value Head Office London Contact Now Tom Hill Director Impact Assessment Head Office London +44 (0) 207 877 4741 Contact Now Marylis Ramos Director Savills Earth Finsbury Circus House Contact Now Earth Day 2023 The role of the property industry in tackling climate change – takeaways from the last 12 months. Learn more Savills Earth Podcast Series Our experts discuss a range of key topics from retrofit and circular economy, to biodiversity and social value. listen Now Spotlight: Real Estate and the Carbon Challenge Will investment be able to drive the transition to net zero in real estate by 2050? Learn more Related Articles Energy & Sustainability EPC ratings and planning policy: A comparative analysis across London Energy & Sustainability Navigating through a minefield of greenwash: keys to developing a meaningful sustainability strategy Energy & Sustainability In Plain English: carbon insets and offsets Case studies Previous ENERGY & SUSTAINABILITY St Modwen Road ENERGY & SUSTAINABILITY Maximising landowners value from solar development ENERGY & SUSTAINABILITY NFU Mutual ENERGY & SUSTAINABILITY SEGRO ENERGY & SUSTAINABILITY whg Stakeholder Engagement ENERGY & SUSTAINABILITY Magnitude ENERGY & SUSTAINABILITY University of Glasgow ENERGY & SUSTAINABILITY MetroBox Fund ENERGY & SUSTAINABILITY Large Scale Solar Development ENERGY & SUSTAINABILITY Nuveen ENERGY & SUSTAINABILITY Calthorpe Group ENERGY & SUSTAINABILITY Longhurst Group ENERGY & SUSTAINABILITY Catalyst Capital ENERGY & SUSTAINABILITY Thames Enterprise Park ENERGY & SUSTAINABILITY LaSalle Investment Next Related Services Consultancy Waste and Circular Economy Embracing the principles of waste reduction and reuse, a Circular Economy approach considers structural waste in building design and operation, creating new business opportunities and revenue streams for landlords and occupiers. Read more Consultancy Sustainability Consultancy Environmental Social Governance (ESG) and sustainability are at the top of the agenda for many organisations as increasing legislation, enhanced stakeholder concern and requirements for transparency and disclosure continue to develop. It is essential that organisations understand both the risks and opportunities of embracing and effectively managing ESG. Read more Planning Sustainability & Environment Planning Negotiating a path through the complex and changing regulations and demands of Net Zero, Social Value and ESG. Read more Consultancy Building and Project Consultancy Providing relevant commercial building surveying, workplace and project management consultancy encompassing all ESG aspects. Read more Property Management Utilities Management Renewable energy sources currently provide over 40% of the UK electricity supplies to all real estate. How we plan, procure, and manage the procurement of clean generation is integral to the challenge of net zero. Read more Research World Class Research In-depth market leading property research unpicking the challenges and opportunities the rural, commercial and residential markets face in the transition to net zero. Read more Subscribe to receive exclusive news and listings free Send Success! You are now subscribed to the Savills mailing list. Sorry, something went wrong. Residential Property For sale Property for sale Property for sale Scotland Property for sale England Property for sale Wales Property for sale in London Help to Buy in London Help to Buy in UK New developments for sale in England New developments for sale in London New developments for sale in Scotland For rent Property to rent in UK Property to rent Scotland Property to rent England Property to rent Wales Property to rent in London New developments to rent in England New developments to rent in London New developments to rent in Scotland Commercial Property For sale Commercial property for sale Development property for sale Industrial properties for sale Leisure properties for sale Offices for sale Hotels for sale Land for sale Industrial property for sale England Hotels for sale in England Offices for sale in England Flexible office space For rent Office property to let Industrial property to let Pubs to let Rural Property Rural property for sale Farms for sale Equestrian property for sale Country estates for sale International Property for sale in Europe Property for sale in France Property for sale in the US Property for sale in Italy Property for sale in Australia Offices All UK offices UK offices by county London Offices Find an office worldwide Services & Sectors Services Asset Management Buying or Selling Property Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Property Management Valuation Sectors Affordable Housing Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food and Farming Healthcare Hotels Industrial And logistics Infrastructure and Transport Leisure Minerals and Commodities Office & Business Space Public Sector Residential Retail Rural Senior Living Serviced Offices Student Accommodation Telecoms Trade-Related & Specialist Sectors Utilities Waste Management More Information Sitemap RSS Feeds Accessibility Feedback TDS Explained Provision of Services Slavery & Human Trafficking Terms & Conditions Privacy & Cookies Client Money Protection Scotland Letting Agent Code of Practice Help to Buy Calculator Residential Stamp Duty Calculator Commercial Stamp Duty Calculator Rental Yield Calculator Land & Buildings Transaction Tax (LBTT) Calculator ESG at Savills Fees & Charges Residential Tenant Fees & Charges Residential Landlord Fees & Charges Talk to Us Find a Savills Office Find a Savills Employee Book a Property Valuation Careers with Savills Ask a Question Investor Relations All content © copyright Savills. All rights reserved. Savills plc, incorporated and registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD. Registered number: 2122174. Savills plc is a holding company, some of whose subsidiaries are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and some of whose subsidiaries are regulated by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). Find us on social Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Facebook YouTube