Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 17 17 Jewellery Quarter, Property Portfolio, Birmingham, B18 6NR See map Guide Price £2,300,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Reduced on 19/04/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Apartment BEDROOMS ×20 TENURE Leasehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. Property description For Sale by private treaty. Offers are invited on £2,300,000 for the whole portfolio, subject to existing tenancies. Offer may be considered on an individual or part-basis, subject to negotiation. Further details are available via Bond Wolfe. A Fully Let Residential Investment Portfolio The portfolio comprises of 11 income producing apartments located in the heart of Birmingham City Centre, and includes a freehold block of two apartments. There are 9 x 2 bedroom and 2 x 1 bedroom apartments, producing a combined annual rent of £126,816. Accommodation Warstone Pde Freehold: x2 2-bed apts producing £2,190 PCM Cutlass Court: x3 2-bed apartments producing £3,250 PCM Sapphire Heights: 1-bed apartment producing £680 PCM Sapphire Heights: 2-bed apartment producing £950 PCM Camden Court: 1-bed apartment producing £725 PCM Camden Court: 2-bed apartment producing £850 PCM Boardwalk Apartments: 2-bed apartment producing £1,100 PCM Point 2 Apartments: 2-bed apartment producing £815 PCM - Total income: £10,568 PCM // £126,816 PA Location The apartments are predominantly located in Birmingham city centre's Jewellery Quarter, an area that is ever popular amongst working professionals thanks to its eclectic offering of restaurants, bars, cafes, and shops. It has a strong creative vibe and attracts businesses from across the media, design and professional services sectors. The Jewellery Quarter is no more than a 15-minute walk from anywhere you want to be in Birmingham, be it the Bullring, Grand Central, Arena Birmingham, or the bustling Birmingham canal network. The location is well connected, with easy access to the Midland Metro tram line, Snow Hill train station and the A38M Aston Expressway, leading to Junction 6 of the M6 Motorway. Birmingham has three main stations: New Street, Snow Hill and Moor Street, the former two being the closest to these apartments at less than a 5-minute walk away. Birmingham's efficient Metro and bus systems also make up excellent public transport options. Tenure Freehold of Warstone Parade East block. All other properties are leasehold, and copy head leases are available upon request. VAT We have been advised that the property is not elected for VAT. EPC Available upon request Legal Costs Each party are to responsible for their own legal costs that may be incurred in this transaction. Anti Money Laundering In accordance with Anti-Money Laundering Regulations, two forms of identity and confirmation of the source of funding will be required from the successful purchaser. Read more Tenure: Leasehold You buy the right to live in a property for a fixed number of years, but the freeholder owns the land the property's built on. Read more about tenure type in our glossary page. For details of the leasehold, including the length of lease, annual service charge and ground rent, please contact the agent Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent Jewellery Quarter, Property Portfolio, Birmingham, B18 6NR Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Jewellery Quarter Tram Stop 0.2 miles St. Paul's Tram Stop 0.4 miles Birmingham Snow Hill Tram Stop 0.6 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Bond Wolfe, Commercial Sales 1st Floor 75-77 Colmore Row Birmingham B3 2AP Bond Wolfe is a multi-disciplined property business specialising in property Auctions and property Agency with our head office based in Birmingham. Many of our highly experienced and dedicated team have been with the business for over 30 years. We are truly proud of our Midlands roots and honoured to have represented the region since 1983. We also act for many clients across the UK and overseas too. Bond Wolfe has a great track record of selling, letting and managing property up and dow Read more More properties from this agent Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Bond Wolfe, Commercial Sales 1st Floor 75-77 Colmore Row Birmingham B3 2AP More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 387 6635 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 197176. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Bond Wolfe, Commercial Sales . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 387 6635 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho