Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 25 25 Bury Old Road, Manchester M7 4QY See map £1,800,000 PROPERTY TYPE Land 2 Key features An opportunity to purchase a plot of land Approved planning permission for 12 four bedroomed properties 0.4 Acres of land Great location on the cormer of Bury Old/Park Road Area Detailed plans available Developer lookin to make thier mark in the area Great Investment opportunity Property description ** Philip Ellis are please to offer land for sale with planning permission for 12 large family properties, consisting of 6 semi detached houses and 6 three storey town houses *** A superb opportunity to purchase a quarter of an acre plot of land benefiting from approved planning permission for 12 properties. This plot is ideal for any developer looking to build their portfolio and make their mark with a development of luxury family properties in a sought after area. It is a short drive from the village centre and is extremely convenient for everything that Prestwich has to offer including its increasingly eclectic mix of bars, cafes and restaurants together with its many independent and corporate retailers. The metrolink network is nearby and Manchester City Centre is about 15 minutes away and is easily accessible by either car, metrolink or bus. The property is on the doorstep of many open spaces and parks. For those needing to travel further afield, the M60/M62/M66 motorway networks are all on the Prestwich/Whitefield border at Jct 17 of the M60. Total Land Area - 0.4 acres Building footprint. - Terraced houses c. 201sq metres. Semi detached c. 117 square metres Please note: Planning permission for; 6 x 4 bedroomed terraced properties, estimated value £650,000 6 x 4 bedroomed semi detached properties estimated value £450,000 Car parking spaces have been allocated as one per household, with a space for visitor/disabled. The area will be adequately lit and will rely on passive surveillance from the surrounding dwellings. Access from the parking areas will be off a path with gradients no greater than 1 in 20 and drop kerbs with tactile paving where necessary to allow full accessibility to the main entrances. Call our office promptly to request a brochure and to arrange a viewing as this will not stay on the market for long ! *Disclaimer This brochure and property details are a representation of the property offered for sale or rent, as a guide only. Brochure content must not be relied upon as fact and does not form any part of a contract. Measurements are approximate. No fixtures or fittings, heating system or appliances have been tested, nor are they warranted by Philip Ellis Estate and lettings or any staff member in any way as being functional or regulation compliant. Philip Ellis Estate And Lettings do not accept any liability for any loss that may be caused directly or indirectly by the brochure content, all interested parties must rely on their own, their surveyor’s or solicitor’s findings. We advise all interested parties to check with the local planning office for details of any application or decisions that may be consequential to your decision to purchase or rent any property. Any floor plans provided should be used for illustrative purposes only and should be used as such by any interested party. Read more Bury Old Road, Manchester M7 4QY Open map Street View NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Crumpsall Tram Stop 0.5 miles Bowker Vale Tram Stop 0.5 miles Woodlands Road Tram Stop 1.0 miles About the agent Philip Ellis Properties Limited, Whitefield 44 Bury Old Road, Whitefield, Manchester, M45 6TL We know the time and devotion that you've invested in your property, so when it comes to selling, we value the importance of helping you get the maximum exposure for your home. We will work with you to develop a strategic property marketing plan tailored to your individual needs, we will use cutting-edge technology and bespoke digital design to push your property to the forefront of buyers' minds. With our free valuations and our local knowledge, we'll tell you how much your prop Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Philip Ellis Properties Limited, Whitefield 44 Bury Old Road, Whitefield, Manchester, M45 6TL More properties from this agent Call agent : 0161 524 0615 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference philip_1740354247. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Philip Ellis Properties Limited, Whitefield . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0161 524 0615 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho