Skip to Content Go to accessibility page Keyboard shortcuts menu Astronomy 17.1 The Brightness of Stars Astronomy 17.1 The Brightness of Stars Close Menu Contents Contents Highlights Print Table of contents Preface 1 Science and the Universe: A Brief Tour Introduction 1.1 The Nature of Astronomy 1.2 The Nature of Science 1.3 The Laws of Nature 1.4 Numbers in Astronomy 1.5 Consequences of Light Travel Time 1.6 A Tour of the Universe 1.7 The Universe on the Large Scale 1.8 The Universe of the Very Small 1.9 A Conclusion and a Beginning For Further Exploration 2 Observing the Sky: The Birth of Astronomy Thinking Ahead 2.1 The Sky Above 2.2 Ancient Astronomy 2.3 Astrology and Astronomy 2.4 The Birth of Modern Astronomy Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 3 Orbits and Gravity Thinking Ahead 3.1 The Laws of Planetary Motion 3.2 Newton’s Great Synthesis 3.3 Newton’s Universal Law of Gravitation 3.4 Orbits in the Solar System 3.5 Motions of Satellites and Spacecraft 3.6 Gravity with More Than Two Bodies Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 4 Earth, Moon, and Sky Thinking Ahead 4.1 Earth and Sky 4.2 The Seasons 4.3 Keeping Time 4.4 The Calendar 4.5 Phases and Motions of the Moon 4.6 Ocean Tides and the Moon 4.7 Eclipses of the Sun and Moon Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 5 Radiation and Spectra Thinking Ahead 5.1 The Behavior of Light 5.2 The Electromagnetic Spectrum 5.3 Spectroscopy in Astronomy 5.4 The Structure of the Atom 5.5 Formation of Spectral Lines 5.6 The Doppler Effect Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 6 Astronomical Instruments Thinking Ahead 6.1 Telescopes 6.2 Telescopes Today 6.3 Visible-Light Detectors and Instruments 6.4 Radio Telescopes 6.5 Observations outside Earth’s Atmosphere 6.6 The Future of Large Telescopes Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 7 Other Worlds: An Introduction to the Solar System Thinking Ahead 7.1 Overview of Our Planetary System 7.2 Composition and Structure of Planets 7.3 Dating Planetary Surfaces 7.4 Origin of the Solar System Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 8 Earth as a Planet Thinking Ahead 8.1 The Global Perspective 8.2 Earth’s Crust 8.3 Earth’s Atmosphere 8.4 Life, Chemical Evolution, and Climate Change 8.5 Cosmic Influences on the Evolution of Earth Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 9 Cratered Worlds Thinking Ahead 9.1 General Properties of the Moon 9.2 The Lunar Surface 9.3 Impact Craters 9.4 The Origin of the Moon 9.5 Mercury Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 10 Earthlike Planets: Venus and Mars Thinking Ahead 10.1 The Nearest Planets: An Overview 10.2 The Geology of Venus 10.3 The Massive Atmosphere of Venus 10.4 The Geology of Mars 10.5 Water and Life on Mars 10.6 Divergent Planetary Evolution Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 11 The Giant Planets Thinking Ahead 11.1 Exploring the Outer Planets 11.2 The Giant Planets 11.3 Atmospheres of the Giant Planets Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 12 Rings, Moons, and Pluto Thinking Ahead 12.1 Ring and Moon Systems Introduced 12.2 The Galilean Moons of Jupiter 12.3 Titan and Triton 12.4 Pluto and Charon 12.5 Planetary Rings (and Enceladus) Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 13 Comets and Asteroids: Debris of the Solar System Thinking Ahead 13.1 Asteroids 13.2 Asteroids and Planetary Defense 13.3 The “Long-Haired” Comets 13.4 The Origin and Fate of Comets and Related Objects Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 14 Cosmic Samples and the Origin of the Solar System Thinking Ahead 14.1 Meteors 14.2 Meteorites: Stones from Heaven 14.3 Formation of the Solar System 14.4 Comparison with Other Planetary Systems 14.5 Planetary Evolution Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 15 The Sun: A Garden-Variety Star Thinking Ahead 15.1 The Structure and Composition of the Sun 15.2 The Solar Cycle 15.3 Solar Activity above the Photosphere 15.4 Space Weather Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 16 The Sun: A Nuclear Powerhouse Thinking Ahead 16.1 Sources of Sunshine: Thermal and Gravitational Energy 16.2 Mass, Energy, and the Theory of Relativity 16.3 The Solar Interior: Theory 16.4 The Solar Interior: Observations Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 17 Analyzing Starlight Thinking Ahead 17.1 The Brightness of Stars 17.2 Colors of Stars 17.3 The Spectra of Stars (and Brown Dwarfs) 17.4 Using Spectra to Measure Stellar Radius, Composition, and Motion Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 18 The Stars: A Celestial Census Thinking Ahead 18.1 A Stellar Census 18.2 Measuring Stellar Masses 18.3 Diameters of Stars 18.4 The H–R Diagram Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 19 Celestial Distances Thinking Ahead 19.1 Fundamental Units of Distance 19.2 Surveying the Stars 19.3 Variable Stars: One Key to Cosmic Distances 19.4 The H–R Diagram and Cosmic Distances Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 20 Between the Stars: Gas and Dust in Space Thinking Ahead 20.1 The Interstellar Medium 20.2 Interstellar Gas 20.3 Cosmic Dust 20.4 Cosmic Rays 20.5 The Life Cycle of Cosmic Material 20.6 Interstellar Matter around the Sun Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 21 The Birth of Stars and the Discovery of Planets outside the Solar System Thinking Ahead 21.1 Star Formation 21.2 The H–R Diagram and the Study of Stellar Evolution 21.3 Evidence That Planets Form around Other Stars 21.4 Planets beyond the Solar System: Search and Discovery 21.5 Exoplanets Everywhere: What We Are Learning 21.6 New Perspectives on Planet Formation Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 22 Stars from Adolescence to Old Age Thinking Ahead 22.1 Evolution from the Main Sequence to Red Giants 22.2 Star Clusters 22.3 Checking Out the Theory 22.4 Further Evolution of Stars 22.5 The Evolution of More Massive Stars Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 23 The Death of Stars Thinking Ahead 23.1 The Death of Low-Mass Stars 23.2 Evolution of Massive Stars: An Explosive Finish 23.3 Supernova Observations 23.4 Pulsars and the Discovery of Neutron Stars 23.5 The Evolution of Binary Star Systems 23.6 The Mystery of the Gamma-Ray Bursts Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 24 Black Holes and Curved Spacetime Thinking Ahead 24.1 Introducing General Relativity 24.2 Spacetime and Gravity 24.3 Tests of General Relativity 24.4 Time in General Relativity 24.5 Black Holes 24.6 Evidence for Black Holes 24.7 Gravitational Wave Astronomy Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 25 The Milky Way Galaxy Thinking Ahead 25.1 The Architecture of the Galaxy 25.2 Spiral Structure 25.3 The Mass of the Galaxy 25.4 The Center of the Galaxy 25.5 Stellar Populations in the Galaxy 25.6 The Formation of the Galaxy Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 26 Galaxies Thinking Ahead 26.1 The Discovery of Galaxies 26.2 Types of Galaxies 26.3 Properties of Galaxies 26.4 The Extragalactic Distance Scale 26.5 The Expanding Universe Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 27 Active Galaxies, Quasars, and Supermassive Black Holes Thinking Ahead 27.1 Quasars 27.2 Supermassive Black Holes: What Quasars Really Are 27.3 Quasars as Probes of Evolution in the Universe Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 28 The Evolution and Distribution of Galaxies Thinking Ahead 28.1 Observations of Distant Galaxies 28.2 Galaxy Mergers and Active Galactic Nuclei 28.3 The Distribution of Galaxies in Space 28.4 The Challenge of Dark Matter 28.5 The Formation and Evolution of Galaxies and Structure in the Universe Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 29 The Big Bang Thinking Ahead 29.1 The Age of the Universe 29.2 A Model of the Universe 29.3 The Beginning of the Universe 29.4 The Cosmic Microwave Background 29.5 What Is the Universe Really Made Of? 29.6 The Inflationary Universe 29.7 The Anthropic Principle Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself 30 Life in the Universe Thinking Ahead 30.1 The Cosmic Context for Life 30.2 Astrobiology 30.3 Searching for Life beyond Earth 30.4 The Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence Key Terms Summary For Further Exploration Collaborative Group Activities Exercises Review Questions Thought Questions Figuring for Yourself A | How to Study for an Introductory Astronomy Class B | Astronomy Websites, Images, and Apps C | Scientific Notation D | Units Used in Science E | Some Useful Constants for Astronomy F | Physical and Orbital Data for the Planets G | Selected Moons of the Planets H | Future Total Eclipses I | The Nearest Stars, Brown Dwarfs, and White Dwarfs J | The Brightest Twenty Stars K | The Chemical Elements L | The Constellations M | Star Chart and Sky Event Resources Index Learning Objectives By the end of this section, you will be able to: Explain the difference between luminosity and apparent brightness Understand how astronomers specify brightness with magnitudes Luminosity Perhaps the most important characteristic of a star is its luminosity —the total amount of energy at all wavelengths that it emits per second. Earlier, we saw that the Sun puts out a tremendous amount of energy every second. (And there are stars far more luminous than the Sun out there.) To make the comparison among stars easy, astronomers express the luminosity of other stars in terms of the Sun’s luminosity. For example, the luminosity of Sirius is about 25 times that of the Sun. We use the symbol L Sun to denote the Sun’s luminosity; hence, that of Sirius can be written as 25 L Sun . In a later chapter, we will see that if we can measure how much energy a star emits and we also know its mass, then we can calculate how long it can continue to shine before it exhausts its nuclear energy and begins to die. Apparent Brightness Astronomers are careful to distinguish between the luminosity of the star (the total energy output) and the amount of energy that happens to reach our eyes or a telescope on Earth. Stars are democratic in how they produce radiation; they emit the same amount of energy in every direction in space. Consequently, only a minuscule fraction of the energy given off by a star actually reaches an observer on Earth. We call the amount of a star’s energy that reaches a given area (say, one square meter) each second here on Earth its apparent brightness . If you look at the night sky, you see a wide range of apparent brightnesses among the stars. Most stars, in fact, are so dim that you need a telescope to detect them. If all stars were the same luminosity—if they were like standard bulbs with the same light output—we could use the difference in their apparent brightnesses to tell us something we very much want to know: how far away they are. Imagine you are in a big concert hall or ballroom that is dark except for a few dozen 25-watt bulbs placed in fixtures around the walls. Since they are all 25-watt bulbs, their luminosity (energy output) is the same. But from where you are standing in one corner, they do not have the same apparent brightness. Those close to you appear brighter (more of their light reaches your eye), whereas those far away appear dimmer (their light has spread out more before reaching you). In this way, you can tell which bulbs are closest to you. In the same way, if all the stars had the same luminosity, we could immediately infer that the brightest-appearing stars were close by and the dimmest-appearing ones were far away. To pin down this idea more precisely, recall from the Radiation and Spectra chapter that we know exactly how light fades with increasing distance. The energy we receive is inversely proportional to the square of the distance. If, for example, we have two stars of the same luminosity and one is twice as far away as the other, it will look four times dimmer than the closer one. If it is three times farther away, it will look nine (three squared) times dimmer, and so forth. Alas, the stars do not all have the same luminosity. (Actually, we are pretty glad about that because having many different types of stars makes the universe a much more interesting place.) But this means that if a star looks dim in the sky, we cannot tell whether it appears dim because it has a low luminosity but is relatively nearby, or because it has a high luminosity but is very far away. To measure the luminosities of stars, we must first compensate for the dimming effects of distance on light, and to do that, we must know how far away they are. Distance is among the most difficult of all astronomical measurements. We will return to how it is determined after we have learned more about the stars. For now, we will describe how astronomers specify the apparent brightness of stars. The Magnitude Scale The process of measuring the apparent brightness of stars is called photometry (from the Greek photo meaning “light” and – metry meaning “to measure”). As we saw Observing the Sky: The Birth of Astronomy , astronomical photometry began with Hipparchus . Around 150 B.C.E., he erected an observatory on the island of Rhodes in the Mediterranean. There he prepared a catalog of nearly 1000 stars that included not only their positions but also estimates of their apparent brightnesses. Hipparchus did not have a telescope or any instrument that could measure apparent brightness accurately, so he simply made estimates with his eyes. He sorted the stars into six brightness categories, each of which he called a magnitude . He referred to the brightest stars in his catalog as first-magnitudes stars, whereas those so faint he could barely see them were sixth-magnitude stars. During the nineteenth century, astronomers attempted to make the scale more precise by establishing exactly how much the apparent brightness of a sixth-magnitude star differs from that of a first-magnitude star. Measurements showed that we receive about 100 times more light from a first-magnitude star than from a sixth-magnitude star. Based on this measurement, astronomers then defined an accurate magnitude system in which a difference of five magnitudes corresponds exactly to a brightness ratio of 100:1. In addition, the magnitudes of stars are decimalized; for example, a star isn’t just a “second-magnitude star,” it has a magnitude of 2.0 (or 2.1, 2.3, and so forth). So what number is it that, when multiplied together five times, gives you this factor of 100? Play on your calculator and see if you can get it. The answer turns out to be about 2.5, which is the fifth root of 100. This means that a magnitude 1.0 star and a magnitude 2.0 star differ in brightness by a factor of about 2.5. Likewise, we receive about 2.5 times as much light from a magnitude 2.0 star as from a magnitude 3.0 star. What about the difference between a magnitude 1.0 star and a magnitude 3.0 star? Since the difference is 2.5 times for each “step” of magnitude, the total difference in brightness is 2.5 × 2.5 = 6.25 times. Here are a few rules of thumb that might help those new to this system. If two stars differ by 0.75 magnitudes, they differ by a factor of about 2 in brightness. If they are 2.5 magnitudes apart, they differ in brightness by a factor of 10, and a 4-magnitude difference corresponds to a difference in brightness of a factor of 40.You might be saying to yourself at this point, “Why do astronomers continue to use this complicated system from more than 2000 years ago?” That’s an excellent question and, as we shall discuss, astronomers today can use other ways of expressing how bright a star looks. But because this system is still used in many books, star charts, and computer apps, we felt we had to introduce students to it (even though we were very tempted to leave it out.) The brightest stars, those that were traditionally referred to as first-magnitude stars, actually turned out (when measured accurately) not to be identical in brightness. For example, the brightest star in the sky, Sirius , sends us about 10 times as much light as the average first-magnitude star. On the modern magnitude scale, Sirius, the star with the brightest apparent magnitude, has been assigned a magnitude of −1.5. Other objects in the sky can appear even brighter. Venus at its brightest is of magnitude −4.4, while the Sun has a magnitude of −26.8. Figure 17.2 shows the range of observed magnitudes from the brightest to the faintest, along with the actual magnitudes of several well-known objects. The important fact to remember when using magnitude is that the system goes backward: the larger the magnitude, the fainter the object you are observing. Figure 17.2 Apparent Magnitudes of Well-Known Objects. The faintest magnitude s that can be detected by the unaided eye, binoculars, and large telescopes are also shown. Example 17.1 The Magnitude Equation Even scientists can’t calculate fifth roots in their heads, so astronomers have summarized the above discussion in an equation to help calculate the difference in brightness for stars with different magnitudes. If m 1 and m 2 are the magnitudes of two stars, then we can calculate the ratio of their brightness ( b 2 b 1 ) ( b 2 b 1 ) using this equation: m 1 − m 2 = 2.5 log ( b 2 b 1 ) or b 2 b 1 = 2.5 m 1 − m 2 m 1 − m 2 = 2.5 log ( b 2 b 1 ) or b 2 b 1 = 2.5 m 1 − m 2 Here is another way to write this equation: b 2 b 1 = ( 100 0.2 ) m 1 − m 2 b 2 b 1 = ( 100 0.2 ) m 1 − m 2 Let’s do a real example, just to show how this works. Imagine that an astronomer has discovered something special about a dim star (magnitude 8.5), and she wants to tell her students how much dimmer the star is than Sirius . Star 1 in the equation will be our dim star and star 2 will be Sirius. Solution Remember, Sirius has a magnitude of −1.5. In that case: b 2 b 1 = ( 100 0.2 ) 8.5 − ( −1.5 ) = ( 100 0.2 ) 10 = ( 100 ) 2 = 100 × 100 = 10,000 b 2 b 1 = ( 100 0.2 ) 8.5 − ( −1.5 ) = ( 100 0.2 ) 10 = ( 100 ) 2 = 100 × 100 = 10,000 Check Your Learning It is a common misconception that Polaris (magnitude 2.0) is the brightest star in the sky, but, as we saw, that distinction actually belongs to Sirius (magnitude −1.5). How does Sirius’ apparent brightness compare to that of Polaris? Answer: b Sirius b Polaris = ( 100 0.2 ) 2.0 − ( −1.5 ) = ( 100 0.2 ) 3.5 = 100 0.7 = 25 b Sirius b Polaris = ( 100 0.2 ) 2.0 − ( −1.5 ) = ( 100 0.2 ) 3.5 = 100 0.7 = 25 (Hint: If you only have a basic calculator, you may wonder how to take 100 to the 0.7th power. But this is something you can ask Google to do. Google now accepts mathematical questions and will answer them. So try it for yourself. Ask Google, “What is 100 to the 0.7th power?”) Our calculation shows that Sirius’ apparent brightness is 25 times greater than Polaris’ apparent brightness. Other Units of Brightness Although the magnitude scale is still used for visual astronomy, it is not used at all in newer branches of the field. In radio astronomy, for example, no equivalent of the magnitude system has been defined. Rather, radio astronomers measure the amount of energy being collected each second by each square meter of a radio telescope and express the brightness of each source in terms of, for example, watts per square meter. Similarly, most researchers in the fields of infrared, X-ray, and gamma-ray astronomy use energy per area per second rather than magnitudes to express the results of their measurements. Nevertheless, astronomers in all fields are careful to distinguish between the luminosity of the source (even when that luminosity is all in X-rays) and the amount of energy that happens to reach us on Earth. After all, the luminosity is a really important characteristic that tells us a lot about the object in question, whereas the energy that reaches Earth is an accident of cosmic geography. To make the comparison among stars easy, in this text, we avoid the use of magnitudes as much as possible and will express the luminosity of other stars in terms of the Sun’s luminosity. For example, the luminosity of Sirius is 25 times that of the Sun. We use the symbol L Sun to denote the Sun’s luminosity; hence, that of Sirius can be written as 25 L Sun . Previous Next Order a print copy As an Amazon Associate we earn from qualifying purchases. Citation/Attribution Want to cite, share, or modify this book? This book uses the Creative Commons Attribution License and you must attribute OpenStax. Attribution information If you are redistributing all or part of this book in a print format, then you must include on every physical page the following attribution: Access for free at https://openstax.org/books/astronomy/pages/1-introduction If you are redistributing all or part of this book in a digital format, then you must include on every digital page view the following attribution: Access for free at https://openstax.org/books/astronomy/pages/1-introduction Citation information Use the information below to generate a citation. We recommend using a citation tool such as this one . Authors: Andrew Fraknoi, David Morrison, Sidney C. Wolff Publisher/website: OpenStax Book title: Astronomy Publication date: Oct 13, 2016 Location: Houston, Texas Book URL: https://openstax.org/books/astronomy/pages/1-introduction Section URL: https://openstax.org/books/astronomy/pages/17-1-the-brightness-of-stars © Jan 28, 2022 OpenStax. Textbook content produced by OpenStax is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution License . The OpenStax name, OpenStax logo, OpenStax book covers, OpenStax CNX name, and OpenStax CNX logo are not subject to the Creative Commons license and may not be reproduced without the prior and express written consent of Rice University. Our mission is to improve educational access and learning for everyone. OpenStax is part of Rice University, which is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit. Give today and help us reach more students. Help Contact Us Support Center FAQ OpenStax Press Newsletter Careers Policies Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Licensing Privacy Policy © 1999-2023, Rice University. Except where otherwise noted, textbooks on this site are licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License . Advanced Placement ® and AP ® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which is not affiliated with, and does not endorse, this site.