Trustpilot Find out your home's sales or rental value 13,000 new buyers and tenants register each week Rated excellent from over 12,000 reviews We sell a property every 88 minutes… Book your free valuation Loading... Please enter a valid postcode Failed to find property. Please enter your details manually. Please call us on 0800 369 8667 as we are unable to find your address Next Trusted Agent We are rated excellent on Trustpilot from over 11,000 customer reviews Vast Network We generate over 2,000 new buyers and 11,000 new renters each week London's Number 1 More homeowners choose Foxtons to sell or let their property over any other agent Boost the value of your home with our helpful guides How to add value to your home Which home improvements add the most value? What happens at a property valuation? Get a valuation Your valuation Whether you are selling or letting your property, discovering its accurate value in today's market is the first key step in your journey. Property valuations are conducted by your local Foxtons agent, who will use their expert knowledge of the local area and current demand to provide an accurate valuation. They are also on hand to answer any questions you may have on the sales process, the current market, and your next steps. What is my house worth? A house valuation is a simple process, in which your local Foxtons expert will use their intimate knowledge of the local market to accurately identify how much your house is worth . A valuer will consider a property's condition, location, layout and size to determine a price, as well as any unique features. These house valuations are a free service and provide you with the information you need to kick start your house selling journey. What type of property valuation should I choose? Deciding on which type of property valuation you need depends on what you are planning to do. If you are planning to sell or let your property, then you'll require our free home valuation service ; an accurate, in-person valuation with a local expert who knows the market intimately. This will provide you with all the information you'll need to kick start your home selling journey. If you are simply curious about finding out the value of your home, you may prefer to use an online house valuation calculator. However, these tools aren’t very accurate, so will only ever provide a rough estimate of your property’s value. Why do I need a property valuation? Completing a house valuation is important for a number of reasons. Receiving a professional opinion on the value of your property will give you the information you need to price your property appropriately when you enter the market, whether you are selling or letting. Should you plan to purchase another property, and require a mortgage, the estimate price of your property will considerably influence the amount you can borrow. In addition to these, property value is also taken into consideration when calculating property taxes. Frequently Asked Questions How do you work out the value of my house? Our expert agents take a variety of factors into account when valuing a property, including: size, location, condition, performance of comparable properties in your local area and any unique features that make the property more attractive to buyers. What should I do to prepare for a valuation? Whilst there isn't anything specific you need to prepare before a valuation, you may want to make sure your property is clean and tidy to make the best impression possible. Don't feel shy about showing off all the great features of your home too. Can I get a free valuation on my house? Yes, our property valuations are completely free. Am I tied in to using your service after the valuation? No. Our free house valuations are “no strings attached” - you are not obliged to instruct us as your agent after the valuation. What if my property isn't in London? Our estate agency service covers London and some parts of Berkshire and Surrey. However, if your property falls outside of our patch, we can help you sell with Foxtons Auctions, our national auction service. What if I don't agree with the value you give me? Our expert valuers are here to guide you on the value of your property. What you choose to sell your home for is ultimately your decision. However, if a property is majorly overpriced, it is very unlikely to sell. How do I get a house valuation? Enter your postcode above to begin our short form and choose which type of valuation you would like. We do all the work from there. We value your privacy We use necessary cookies to make our website work and we'd like to use other cookies to give you the most relevant experience. Click “Accept all” to agree to all cookies, or for more options click on “Change Settings”. For more information see our cookie policy Accept All Change Settings Privacy and Cookies Policy Introduction Strictly necessary Functionality cookies Performance cookies Performance cookies Performance cookies let us collect information about how the website is used. For example, we may record what pages are visited most. This data allows us to see where we could optimise the website and make it more efficient. Foxtons: tbp, twp2, tws. tco, referrer Foxtons uses performance cookies to help understand how our visitors use the website and how we can improve our website. We also host the following third-party solutions, which may set the following cookies: Google Analytics: _ga, _gat, _gat_UA-<TOKEN>, utmx, utmxx Google Analytics cookies are used to distinguish users and sessions and gather usage data related to your visit to our website so we can improve our website. AddThis: _atssc, _atuvc, _atuvs, _ Some pages may have the AddThis social plugin to allow you to share pages to your social network and for Foxtons to view reports on which pages were shared and how. Crazyegg: _ceir, is_returning, _CEFT, _ceg.s, _ceg.u, s, u, cer.s, cer.v Crazyegg is a third-party optimisation solution which helps us to test, analyse and improve each user's experience on the website based on their online behaviour. Functionality cookies Functionality cookies allow the website to remember settings such as the screen size, which lets us serve the right content without overloading any network or device capacity. mortgage - Stores your mortgage settings for use across the website. recent - Stores information of the last pages you have viewed. screen - Stores the screen size of the device that you are viewing our website on. This allows us to serve the right content for the device you are using without overloading your network and preserving best layout. Strictly necessary cookies Strictly necessary cookies allow you to log into your account and view account details without a need to log in again every time you navigate to subsequent page. These cannot be disabled. foxtons_session - Stores information about whether you are logged in into your account or not. visit_secure_token2 (session) - Stores information necessary to access your account. cookie_policy_displayed - Stores information about the cookie policy declaration. search - Stores your preferences as to how you prefer your results to be displayed i.e display 10 properties per page and price filter ‘from highest to lowest'. is_logged_in - Recognize when a user is logged in, to allow access to restricted areas of the site. What are cookies? To make your experience visiting the Foxtons website as simple and convenient as possible we place small data files known as "cookies" on your computer. This practice is used by many websites. Cookies are created when your browser loads the website. The website sends information to the browser which then creates a text file. Cookies are stored on your device for various periods of time, from as short time as the duration of your browsing session to several months. Every time you come back to the website, the browser retrieves and sends cookies to the server, which helps to improve your experience of the website by: Remembering settings, so you don't have to re-enter them every time you visit Remembering your last properties and searches, helping you to keep on top of new listings Measuring use of the website so that we can see where we can improve You can manage and/or delete these small files from your device, but please be aware that this will limit the functionality that we are able to offer to you. Allow all cookies Save preferences Find your next home Search Unlock the true value of your home Get a valuation Lettings & Property Management New to Foxtons? Instruct us Existing customers Login to My Foxtons Explore news articles, area guides and interior design trends Setting the standard in estate agency We combine best-in-class people and technology to set the standard for service in estate agency Find your nearest office Find your nearest office Our Services Setting the standard in estate agency First time buyers How much can I borrow? Guide to buying Moving home How much is my home worth? Register with Foxtons Find a property New Homes availability Asia Pacific Help for buyers Advantages of choosing Foxtons Mortgages Conveyancing Stamp Duty calculator Why buy a new build? Property Surveys and Lease Extensions Our services Sell your home Foxtons Private Office How much is your home worth? Book a valuation appointment Help Help & Guides Contact us Rental searches Lettings Short lets Corporate relocation Student accommodation Tenant advice Guide to renting Right to Rent Why use Foxtons? Area guides Your tenancy Register with Foxtons My tenancy in My Foxtons Fees & terms Tenant support Our services Find tenants Property Management Specialist services Short lets Help being a landlord Help & Guides Buy to Let Mortgages Property inspiration Blog Interior Design Local life Area guides Schools Let's get social Facebook Twitter Instagram Our company About us Our history Investor Relations Careers Inside Foxtons News from Foxtons Foxtons' Minis Testimonials Social Media Community Community Environment People Our services Register to find a new home Valuation New Homes Corporate Relocations Customer services Opening hours Existing Lettings Feedback Complaints Internal enquiries Press Reports Recruitment Investor Relations All other enquiries Buying and Selling Buying New Homes Selling Landlords and Renting Landlords Property Management Renters Short lets Specialist Services B2R & Institutional PRS Foxtons Private Office Corporate relocation Asia Pacific About Foxtons About Foxtons Estate Agent Sales jobs in London Property Management in London Tenancy FAQs Mobile apps Branch Finder Our estate agencies Central London estate agents East London estate agents North London estate agents South London estate agents Surrey estate agents West London estate agents Popular searches London property for sale London lettings London short lets New Homes in London Property intelligence Area guides House price reports Rental reports Home valuation service © Foxtons Estate Agents Investors Terms and Conditions & Privacy Policy Cookies Policy Sitemap