Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 28 2 28 2 Innerwick House, Murrayfield, Edinburgh, EH12 See map £5,000,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 17/03/2022 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×8 BATHROOMS ×7 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 2 Key features One of Edinburgh's finest houses Enchanting detached Georgian house 3 elegant reception rooms Open plan dining kitchen and living room Master bedroom suite 4 further bedrooms, 3 further bathrooms Drive, parking and car port Delightful landscaped garden grounds Detached 3 bed Coach House EPC Rating = F Property description Fine Georgian house nestled in particularly private grounds, and including the delightful Old Coach House Description Innerwick is one of Edinburgh’s finest houses, nestled in private, beautifully screened and walled grounds in the much sought after Murrayfield district of Edinburgh. A high amenity area, the property is well located for access to a wide range of excellent private schools, the Financial district and all cultural and sporting amenities around the city. Innerwick House is a beautifully presented and well appointed stone built Georgian house, sympathetically extended in Edwardian times to provide superb family accommodation set over two principal floors. The property was comprehensively refurbished and reconfigured in the late 1990s by the acclaimed Lorn Macneal Architects to create free-flowing family living and reception space on the ground floor, complemented by 5 generous double bedrooms and 5 bathrooms making this an exceptional family home. Of particular note are the original period features, the elegant drawing and dining rooms and the wonderful open plan dining kitchen and family living room. There is an extensive cellar below providing useful storage space. Outside The house is approached by a drive-in, drive-out gravelled drive providing ample parking as well as access to a car port. A colourful front garden is well screened by a number of mature trees, while to the rear of the house there is a paved stone terrace and a sizeable lawn with beautifully landscaped borders surrounding. To the west side of the garden there is a delightful water feature with a summer house, and to the rear of the garden there is a gardener’s pavilion with wood panelled Den above. The Old Coach House The Old Coach House is set to the northern boundary and has courtyard parking in front. The property has been successfully let on short-term holiday lets providing a substantial income, with the accommodation including hall, breakfasting kitchen with utility room off, office/ bedroom 3, shower room and open plan dining room and drawing room with Minstrel’s gallery above. Upstairs, there are 2 bedrooms and an en suite bathroom. To the rear of The Coach House there is a paved garden. Location Murrayfield is long established as one of the most desirable suburbs of Edinburgh. Situated just over a mile from the city centre, the area is convenient for access out of town to the airport. There are excellent road links and regular buses run frequently in both directions. The area is particularly popular with families, with schools including St. George’s School for Girls, Erskine Stewart’s Melville Schools, Fettes College and The Edinburgh Academy all within easy reach. Murrayfield Golf Course and Ravelston Golf Club are located close by at the top of Murrayfield Road and on Ravelston Dykes Road respectively. There are a number of other sporting and leisure facilities close by, including the Murrayfield Ice Rink and picturesque walks along the Water of Leith. There is a good range of local shops in Roseburn and Stockbridge and the Craigleith Retail Park is a short car journey. Square Footage: 8,068 sq ft Brochures Web Details Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Rating Graph Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Innerwick House, Murrayfield, Edinburgh, EH12 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Haymarket Station 1.1 miles Slateford Station 1.4 miles Kingsknowe Station 2.1 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Savills, Edinburgh Wemyss House 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise span the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa, and the Middle East. Our scale gives us wide-ranging specialist and local knowledge, and we take pride in providing best-in-class advice as we help individuals, businesses and institutions make better property decisions. Outstanding property We have been advising on Read more More properties from this agent Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Savills, Edinburgh Wemyss House 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH More properties from this agent Call agent : 0131 381 1711 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference EDT210025. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Savills, Edinburgh . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0131 381 1711 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho