Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 18 18 South Street, Mayfair W1K See map £35,000,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 09/03/2023 PROPERTY TYPE House BEDROOMS ×6 BATHROOMS ×6 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Mayfair Mansion Freehold 6 Bedrooms 3 Receptions Swimming pool Two large south facing terraces Approximately 8,513 sqft Located in the Heart of Mayfair Exceptional curb appeal Moments from Hyde Park Property description Considered to be the archetypal London mansion, this exceptional property sits in the heart of Mayfair, just moments from both Park Lane and Grosvenor Square. This exceptionally wide, stone-dressed, red-brick, five-storey mansion boasts a stunning double-fronted, 5 window wide, Edwardian facade, elegantly decorated with, Portland stone quoins , a prominent row of neo classical cornices running under the mansard roof and a beautiful Beaux-Arts style Portland stone doorway. The mansions already striking grandeur is further amplified by its highly distinct, French-inspired, railing as well as two large, extremely prominent chimney`s, which are visible from the street and for centuries have been a symbol of status and wealth in Britain. The mansions exceptional width provides a degree of lateral living rarely found in central Mayfair, with the principle reception areas of the ground and first floors alone boasting the capacity to accommodate over 100 guests. Half of the grand entrance hall boasts an incredible double height ceiling, courtesy of a generous first floor void, around which an exceptionally wide, L shaped, wooden, staircase zig zags up to the first floor. The staircase is conjoined to and runs along a stunning floor to ceiling wood paneled wall, (composed of the same wood as the staircase) the bespoke design of which it sympathetically matches. The other half of the entrance half boasts a beautiful coffered ceiling, and a gas powered fireplace which is impressive in size and benefits from ornate neo classical design. The entire entrance hall boasts beautiful polished diamond limestone flag stone flooring. At the back of the grand entrance hall an exquisite set of double doors lead into the majestic dining room, which boasts high ceilings, grand proportions, bespoke neo classical cornices, an ornate marble fireplace and the same polished diamond limestone flag stone flooring as the grand entrance hall. The ground floor also contains a large kitchen, a guest wardrobe and a beautiful guest WC. The rest of the ground floor is occupied by a study of grand proportions study, which benefits from bespoke finishes and boasts an interior balcony overlooking, the extravagant, lower ground floor wellness suite. The sensitive modernisation of this exquisite mansion included the creation of a wellness suite on the lower ground floor, complete with swimming pool, bar, sauna and relaxation zone, centred around an glazed court yard of astonishing proportions, which boasts a remarkable, pitched glass ceiling, that exceeds 7 metres in height and floods the space with an abundance of natural light. The lower ground floor also benefits from a separate street entrance located at the front of the property and contains three large bedrooms all of which benefits from en suite bathrooms. A guest WC and two utility rooms are also located on the lower ground floor. The grand entrance halls wide staircase leads to the stately, main first floor reception room which benefits from an open plan design that produces a substantial L shaped mezzanine, overlooking the grand entrance hall, which is an extension of the main staircases bespoke wooden rail and its supporting balustrades. The palatial main first floor reception area boasts grand proportions, a beautiful coffered ceiling (with cornices decorating the beams), graceful floor to ceiling wood paneling with a bespoke, intricate mix of decorative features drawing on a variety of architectural styles, prominent neo classical cornices, an ornate, functioning fireplace as well as a combination of contemporary ceiling lights and wall mounted lanterns with a floral, period aesthetic. At the back of the first floor is a second reception room which is also exceptional in its grandeur, boasting high coffered ceilings (with neo classical cornices running along the beams and dramatic, Beaux-Arts style, floral decorations spread across its entirety), a large functioning marble fireplace with decorative, ornate lining as well as three sets of glass double doors, with rectangular glass fanlights (essentially making them floor to ceiling in terms of light exposure), which flood the space with plenty of natural light and lead out onto an outstanding terrace of immense proportions, that spanning entire width of the building, making it perfect for al fresco entertaining. The first floor contains a third large reception room which boasts striking interior design resulting from its bespoke black wood flooring and black fireplace sharply contrasting the rooms white walls and ceiling. The third reception room also benefits from three sets of floor to ceiling double doors which lead out onto the massive first floor terrace. An guest WC boasting ornate design is also located on the first floor. The second floor is entirely dedicated to a vast and opulent master bedroom suite, boasting grand proportions, bespoke interior design, a projector above the bed and an tremendously large dressing room with plenty of natural light provided by three windows as well as a separate walk in wardrobe of considerable proportions (accessible via the dressing room). The master suite also benefits from an impressively large, ornate, en-suite bathroom ( complete with walk in shower and bath) and three floor to ceiling glass doors, flooding the room with natural light and which lead out onto a large second floor terrace, made extremely private by the tall bamboo plants surrounding it. South Street is extremely well-located for a range of amenities and culture. The luxurious and world-renowned shopping streets of Bond Street and Savile Row are a five-minute walk from the property. With 24 hour police security around the house the house is incredibly secure. Even closer is the recently upgraded Grosvenor Square sporting the new Rosewood Hotel. A wide selection of London`s finest restaurants, international music venues, leading museums, schools, and universities are all within easy proximity making it a phenomenal address. The greenery of the 350-acre historic Hyde Park is at the end of South Street and yet Heathrow airport will soon be just 34 minutes away from Bond Street with the arrival of Crossrail. This rare house has been the of home of politicians and celebrities and was designed by two starchitects: Detmar Blow built the Edwardian mansion in 1902 while the modern-day wellness centre was designed by Nicholas Rakic. Boasting only three owners in its history one of which was acclaimed writer Dame Barbara Cartland this house can only be titled the epitome of luxury London living. what3words /// ever.onions.leader Notice Please note we have not tested any apparatus, fixtures, fittings, or services. Interested parties must undertake their own investigation into the working order of these items. All measurements are approximate and photographs provided for guidance only. Brochures Brochure 1 Web Details Read more Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H South Street, Mayfair W1K Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Hyde Park Corner Station 0.4 miles Bond Street Station 0.4 miles Green Park Station 0.5 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Rokstone, London 5 Dorset Street, London, W1U 6QJ Rokstone is London's most complete Estate Agency offering an integrated sales and acquisition service. Whether you need to sell your property or help to buy your ideal home, Rokstone offers a personalised service. With over 12 years' experience exclusively in the Central London market Rokstone understands its clients' needs and expectations. More properties from this agent Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Rokstone, London 5 Dorset Street, London, W1U 6QJ More properties from this agent Call agent : 020 7580 2030 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 1781_ROKS. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Rokstone, London . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 020 7580 2030 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho