Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 42 42 Romsdal, 10 Methven Road, Whitecraigs See map Offers Over £1,275,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 09/06/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×2 SIZE 3,122 sq. ft. (290 sq. m.) TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Romsdal is a beautiful, arts and crafts detached house set within landscaped garden grounds of approximately half an acre or thereby. A simply stunning, elegant, and highly distinctive family home within one of Whitecraigs most sought after residential pockets. Set behind twin electric gates with cobbled horseshoe driveway leading to outstanding landscaped private gardens. Delivering a stylish, bespoke interior and flexible accommodation throughout. Significantly enhanced, refurbished, and upgraded by the present owners and offering a turnkey solution to any purchaser. Property description Description Romsdal is one of Whitecraigs most admired, signature unique homes and is set within wonderful, landscaped garden grounds of approximately half an acre or thereby. Set behind twin electric security gates and leading to an attractive cobbled landscaped driveway offering parking for multiple vehicles, the garden grounds are outstanding by virtue of their size, privacy, and mature and established design. The house has been significantly improved and upgraded by the present owners and notable features include an entirely new slated roof system in 2021, bespoke double glazed traditional style windows, high performance gas central heating system, security alarm system and the interior has been designed throughout by Design Works and therefore offers a beautiful bespoke level of finishing and quality throughout. Entrance porch leading into stunning reception hallway with mirrored detail and cornicing, separate WC/cloaks, magnificent dual aspect drawing room with focal point limestone fireplace, fantastic sized family room and dining room with bay window formations to the side and the rear, focal point fireplace and decorative stain glass windows, outstanding sized family kitchen by Geddes with central island unit, integrated Neff appliances and sliding bifold doors to patio and gardens and the ground floor is completed by a utility/laundry room. Impressive broad staircase with feature window at landing area leads to upper landing and provides access to principal bedroom with feature turreted bay window and large walk in bespoke dressing room, beautiful en-suite shower room with Duravit and Porcelanosa fitments, four further bedrooms again with feature bay window formations, built in storage and a stunning main bathroom with Porcelanosa fitments, standing alone bath and walk in shower. The attic has been converted to provide a playroom/home office area/home cinema room and is fitted with velux windows. Cobbled driveway gives access to a garage (40'0” x 10'9”) that would offer parking for three cars. Fitted with power and light. Local Area Whitecraigs is considered one of the primary residential locations within the south side of Glasgow. Located approximately six miles south of the city centre, its close proximity to Glasgow effectively makes it one of the most sought after suburbs in the Greater Glasgow area. The district features an abundance of eye catching homes and provides catchment to some of the best schools in Scotland. It is located to the east of the M77 motorway, giving swift communication links to Glasgow city centre, airports and coastal Ayrshire. The surrounding district provides excellent sports and recreational facilities - Whitecraigs Golf Course, Tennis, Squash and Bowling Clubs and Rouken Glen Park which was voted UK's Best Park of 2016 are all within a short walk from the property, as is the station. The property is superbly placed for a wide range of local amenities. Directions From our office on Ayr Road, Newton Mearns travel city bound and opposite Whitecraigs Golf Club turn right onto Craignethan Road, immediately right onto Lethington Road, proceed onwards going up the hill turning second left into Methven Road, proceed onwards and the property is on the left hand side. Brochures Brochure 1 Web Details Read more Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent Romsdal, 10 Methven Road, Whitecraigs Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Whitecraigs Station 0.4 miles Williamwood Station 0.9 miles Patterton Station 1.2 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Corum, Newton Mearns 134 Ayr Road, Newton Mearns, Glasgow, G77 6EG Experience the difference Once, estate agents were estate agents. Nowadays, they're often lawyers, mortgage brokers and letting agents too - but not at Corum. We work exclusively in estate agency, meaning we devote 100% of our time doing what our customers want: securing the best price for their property. The agency's original founding partners worked together at one of the largest estate agencies in the country, until a company takeover led to a wholesale focus on Financial Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Corum, Newton Mearns 134 Ayr Road, Newton Mearns, Glasgow, G77 6EG More properties from this agent Call agent : 0141 673 1647 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference NM4087. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Corum, Newton Mearns . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0141 673 1647 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho