Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 9 9 23 Nelson Mandela Place, Glasgow, G2 1QY See map £2,000,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added yesterday TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Town/City Property description Offers in excess of £2000000.00 The building ownership has accommodation over 4 floors in total. The living accommodation is based on the first to third floors with an attractive main door entrance off Nelson Mandela Place. The building was fully renovated during its current ownership back in 2016 and consists of ten studio apartments in all. The properties have been managed and maintained well by Destiny Scotland. All ten apartments run off a well maintained central stair. On the first floor there are two superior studio apartments on this level which are spacious and bright benefitting from large windows and the grandeur of the high ceilings. These apartments are similar in fit out compared to the other flats however there is more space for a larger living area compared to the other serviced apartments. Each of eight studio apartments on the second and third floors have a spacious kitchen / living area including a fully equipped kitchen, good sized bedrooms with built in storage, stylish shower rooms and a storage cupboard in each property. The apartments are currently experiencing high occupancy all year round and it is likely a new owner could continue to operate as is and look to improve the current rent roll & operations of the asset. NET income of c. £125,000 in the 2022/23 financial year reflecting a NET investment yield of c. 6.25% on its current short let operation. 2022/23 building income was £282,786 per annum (net of VAT). With regards to current year performance, the gross income for the period 1st January to 31st May 2023 is up 11% on the same period the previous year. Depending on how the asset is managed in the future, there is potential to develop the NET yield further. Located in the heart of Glasgow City Centre, an area of Glasgow which has benefitted from significant redevelopment in the last few decades with both commercial developments and exclusive residential buildings. This location offers a wonderful central position and a very prominent social location with the city centre. Nearby there is a wealth of historic buildings and a range of amenities including both general and specialist shopping, wine bars and many highly acclaimed restaurants and is also conveniently located for access to the Merchant City. The property is in close proximity to Strathclyde & Caledonian Universities, the Glasgow School of Art, the SEC and The Clyde Auditorium. The area benefits from frequent public transport with easy access to Central and Queen Street Train Stations, and both St Enoch and Buchanan Street subway stations. Public transport and road links are exceptional. Brochures More Details 23 Nelson Mandela Pl Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. Generated EPC Graph. Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent 23 Nelson Mandela Place, Glasgow, G2 1QY Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Glasgow Queen Street Station 0.1 miles Glasgow Central Station 0.3 miles St. Enoch Station 0.3 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Knight Frank, Glasgow - Commercial 1st Floor 25 Bothwell Street Glasgow G2 6NL Knight Frank is the leading independent, global real estate consultancy providing an integrated prime commercial and residential offering, operating in key hubs across the globe. Headquartered in London with 244 offices, employing more than 7,067 professionals and spanning five continents, Knight Frank provides the highest standards of quality and integrity in global residential and commercial property advisory services. Our reputation for uncompromising professionalism in everything we Read more More properties from this agent Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Knight Frank, Glasgow - Commercial 1st Floor 25 Bothwell Street Glasgow G2 6NL More properties from this agent Call agent : 0141 673 7084 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference GLC012376505. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Knight Frank, Glasgow - Commercial . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0141 673 7084 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho