Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 23 1 23 1 Beetham Tower, 301 Deansgate, Manchester, M3 See map Offers Over £2,000,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Reduced on 02/03/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Apartment BEDROOMS ×4 BATHROOMS ×2 SIZE 4,448 sq. ft. (413 sq. m.) TENURE Leasehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Triplex apartment four double bedrooms Five secure parking spaces Private terrace space to each floor 44th, 45th, and 46th Floor Unrivalled panoramic Manchester views Separate garage lock-up space on private contract EPC Rating = B Property description Best In class triplex apartment, in the highly exclusive Beetham Tower. Description Long a staple of Manchester City Centre skyline, Beetham Tower has continuously been recognised as one of Manchester's most iconic developments. This exceptionally well presented apartment has been finished to the highest of standards. Boasting unmatched lateral living across three separate floors, The Orchid Suite is sure to appeal to a range of parties searching for premium city centre living. The property is entered via the 45th floor, and you are immediately greeted to a stunning curved entrance reception area, leading through to a sizeable open plan reception, and kitchen/dining room. Situated on this floor also is a utility room, and WC. Venturing downstairs to the 44th floor is a second reception room, as well as a luxurious double bedroom offering floor to ceiling windows across one wall. Further, there is an office space with far reaching views of Manchester, ideal for the occupant working from home, as well as a sizeable walk-in wardrobe & WC. Approaching the 46th floor, there are three double bedrooms, with the principal suite enjoying a walk-in wardrobe and additional storage room. There is also a luxury en suite bathroom complete with oval shaped bath, his & hers wash basin, and shower facilities. The third and fourth double bedrooms are served well by a main family bathroom, again with separate bath & shower facility, and his & hers wash basins. Further included are private terraces to each floor, and various storage cupboards/rooms throughout. Five secure parking spaces are also included, and a separate garage lock-up is available for use (garage lock-up on a separate private monthly rental contract). Beetham Tower is home to The Hilton Manchester Deansgate Hotel, & Cloud 23 Bar. An array of amenities & transport links are available within a moments reach. Occupants can also utilise the luxurious facilities provided by The Hilton at an extra cost. Originally designed by SimpsonHaugh and Partners, Beetham Tower stands proud at the top of Deansgate, and is undoubtedly premium living at its finest. Location Positioned at the top of Deansgate, residents at Beetham Tower have all that the city of Manchester has on offer on their doorstep. With a variety of bars, restaurants, and shopping facilities available along Deansgate, connectivity is also excellent with Deansgate tram and train links less than 0.1m away. Square Footage: 4,448 sq ft Leasehold with approximately 987 years remaining. Brochures Web Details Read more Tenure: Leasehold You buy the right to live in a property for a fixed number of years, but the freeholder owns the land the property's built on. Read more about tenure type in our glossary page. GROUND RENT A regular payment made by the leaseholder to the freeholder, or management company. Read more about ground rent in our glossary page. £450 per year ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE A regular payment for things like building insurance, lighting, cleaning and maintenance for shared areas of an estate. They're often paid once a year, or annually. Read more about annual service charge in our glossary page. £35064.24 LENGTH OF LEASE How long you've bought the leasehold, or right to live in a property for. Read more about length of lease in our glossary page. 986 years left Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Rating Graph Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Beetham Tower, 301 Deansgate, Manchester, M3 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Deansgate Station 0.1 miles G-Mex Tram Stop 0.1 miles St Peters Square Tram Stop 0.3 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Savills, Manchester 50 Bridge Street, Manchester, M3 3BW Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise span the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa, and the Middle East. Our scale gives us wide-ranging specialist and local knowledge, and we take pride in providing best-in-class advice as we help individuals, businesses and institutions make better property decisions. Outstanding property We have been advising on Read more More properties from this agent Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Savills, Manchester 50 Bridge Street, Manchester, M3 3BW More properties from this agent Call agent : 0161 524 3346 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference MNS200002. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Savills, Manchester . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0161 524 3346 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho