Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 26 1 26 1 ONLINE VIEWING Belfield Road, Didsbury, Manchester, M20 See map Offers Over £1,550,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Reduced on 22/04/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×6 BATHROOMS ×6 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Edwardian Detached Home 4472 sq ft Six Double Bedrooms South Westerly Facing Garden Highly Sought After Location Original Features Integral Garage Off-Road Parking Property description A TRULY MAGNIFICENT double fronted Edwardian family residence offering extensive, perfectly balanced accommodation covering FOUR FLOORS, extending to a considerable 4472 sq ft. This spectacular home is located on one of Didsbury's most sought after private tree-lined roads and is within strolling distance to Didsbury village. In brief the property compromises; entrance hallway, two reception rooms, dining room, modern fitted kitchen, SIX DOUBLE BEDROOMS, Six bathrooms and converted basement which is currently being used as games room including separate cinema room. Externally there is ample OFF ROAD PARKING, integral garage and spacious SOUTH WESTERLY FACING REAR GARDEN. A truly magnificent double fronted Edwardian family residence offering extensive, perfectly balanced accommodation covering four floors, extending to a considerable 4472 sq ft. This spectacular home is located on one of Didsbury's most sought after private tree-lined roads and is within strolling distance to Didsbury village and Metro link. There is easy access to the motorway network, city centre and Manchester airport. Beautifully presented throughout, boasting an abundance of original period features, the impressive accommodation comprises: a welcoming reception entrance hallway with a grand feature staircase rising to the first floor boasting stunning original stained glass windows. Covering the ground floor, the reception and dining room are front facing, both holding a feature fireplace to each. To the rear there is a generously sized open plan living room leading through to the impressive kitchen which is fitted with a comprehensive range of ample wall and base level units including a centre island highlighted with granite worktops and a side door allowing access to the outside. Furthermore there is a downstairs W.C and access to the spacious integral garage. The first floor reveals, a good size landing space with an additional stained glass window to the front aspect, three well-proportioned double bedrooms including a magnificent master suite with double doors opening into the outstanding en-suite bathroom providing a bath, separate shower, twin wash basins, a WC and a bidet with the addition of a quaint balcony overlooking the rear garden area. The second and third bedrooms both benefit from en-suite shower rooms with wash basin and WC. To the second floor there is access to a further three generous double bedrooms including one with two windows to the side elevation, the other two bedrooms boast side windows with additional Velux windows flooding all the rooms with natural light. This floor is served with a contemporary bathroom suite offering shower over bath, wash basin and WC. Furthermore the deceptively spacious cellar which is accessed via a beautiful bespoke wooden spiral staircase. The cellar has been converted into a marvellous space, currently being used as a games room, gym and bar area. Also boasting a built-in cosy cinema room, separate laundry room and additional WC. The property boasts a top of the range lighting system throughout. Externally there is a spacious stone paved driveway providing ample off road parking for several vehicles and a spacious integral garage. There is access via a side gate to the enviable South Westerly facing landscaped garden, mainly laid to lawn with well stocked mature borders and trees. Additional offers a raised wooden decking area perfect for al fresco dining and entertaining in the warmer months. Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Rating Graph Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: G Belfield Road, Didsbury, Manchester, M20 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Didsbury Village Station 0.2 miles West Didsbury Tram Stop 0.4 miles Burnage Station 0.6 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Philip James Kennedy, Didsbury 679-681 Wilmslow Road, Didsbury, Manchester M20 6RA Philip James Kennedy are part of the industry recognised Philip James Estate Agency Network. A privately owned independent company, Philip James emerged as market leader in 2008 in both sales and lettings for the areas of Didsbury, Heaton Mersey and Manchester City Centre. In this more challenging market, clients expect an estate agent who is dynamic, driven, has innovative sales and marketing ideas and achieves results. Principal Robert Kennedy has been proactively marketing property i Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Philip James Kennedy, Didsbury 679-681 Wilmslow Road, Didsbury, Manchester M20 6RA More properties from this agent Call agent : 0161 524 4262 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference DIS230028. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Philip James Kennedy, Didsbury . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0161 524 4262 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho