Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. Find out more Manage cookies Allow all cookies Manage Cookies Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. For more information about how we and our partners use cookies on our site, see our Cookie Policy Strictly necessary These cookies are necessary for the Savills website to function. Examples of this include: setting your privacy preferences, logging in to your Savills account, or filling in forms. Though these cookies cannot be switched off, you can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but please be aware that this will stop some parts of the Savills website from functioning as intended. Find out more about strictly necessary cookies here . Always allowed Functional cookies These cookies are used to enhance the performance of the Savills website, as without them certain functions of the website may not be available. While they are not vital for the website to run, they allow us to remember important information and your preferences such as previous location searches. Find out more about functional cookies here . Allow Targeting & tracking These cookies record your activity on the Savills website and our partners may use that information to show you adverts that they think you will be most interested in when you visit other websites. We may also use information recorded by these cookies to see how well these adverts are performing. Find out more about targeting and tracking cookies here . Allow Save and close Allow all cookies Location and Language Selection Close United Kingdom Location Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe United Kingdom Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe Language English English English Book a valuation Search Close Site Search: Search My Account Menu Menu > Find a property > Market your property > Find a service > Why Savills > Insight & Opinion > Contact us Close Find a property Find a property Whether buying a townhouse or selling a country cottage, leasing corporate office space or renting farmland, our experts make it their business to understand your needs and help you find the right property. Search for a property Residential Search for a residential property Buy a property in London Rent a property in London New homes for sale Properties in Europe Properties in the Caribbean Properties in the US Properties in Asia Pacific Properties in The Alps Farms & Estates Search for rural property Farms for sale Estates for sale Equestrian property for sale Commercial Search for a commercial property Offices to lease in the UK Development land for sale in the UK Retail properties Industrial properties to lease Leisure properties for sale Hotels for sale Flexible office space Investment properties for sale Residential investment Student housing investment Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert What's your property worth? Get expert advice for residential, commercial or rural property, grounded in our experience and knowledge of local, regional and international markets. Arrange a market appraisal Property auctions As one of the UK’s leading auction houses, we offer a large selection of residential and commercial property for sale by auction. More Information Where are residential property sales holding up the strongest? Residential Sales 31 May 2023 We forecast that limited mortgage availability and high interest rates would see home buying activity levels fall in 2023. Read this article Market your property Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an agent Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Market your property Whether you're planning to sell, rent or are undecided, we have an expert who can help. More Information Selling a Residential Property Letting a Residential Property Auctioning a Property Selling a Mews Property Selling New-Build Property Selling International Property Selling a Farm Selling a Fishing Beat Selling a Forest or Woodland Selling a Quarry or Waste Management Facility Selling a Shoot Selling an Estate Selling Country Property Selling Equestrian Property Selling Waterfront Property Interior, Furnishing and Refurbishment Services Private Office Selling Commercial Property Selling Healthcare Property Selling Leisure or Trade-Related Property Real Estate Insights Podcast: Impacts 2023: what is the purpose of property? Research 7 June 2023 Our latest podcast discusses how financial, environmental and social purposes intersect, and how they can be measured, as well as unveiling some of the key findings to emerge from this year’s Impacts publication. Read this article Find a service Find a service Savills offers a wide range of specialist services from financial and investment advice to valuation, planning and property management. More Information Asset Management Auctions Buying or Selling Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Private Office Property Management Research Savills Earth (ESG Consulting) Valuation Browse by sector Our services cover a broad range of property sectors. More Information Affordable Housing Auctions Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food & Farming Forestry Healthcare High St/In Town Retail Hotels Industrial & Logistics Infrastructure Leisure Marine Minerals & Commodities Mixed Use Office & Business Space Operational Capital Markets Out of Town Retail Public Sector Pubs, Bars & Restaurants Residential Residential Investment & Development Residential Development Sales Retail Rural Science & Technology Senior Living Serviced Offices Shopping Centres Trade-Related Sports Venues Student Accommodation Telecoms Utilities Visitor Attractions Vineyards Waste Management Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Find your nearest office With over 40,000 people working across more than 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Why Savills Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise spans the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East. More Information How we work Our integrity, honesty and professionalism is what gives our clients, colleagues, investors and business partners the confidence to work with us. More Information Innovation and technology Savills is at the forefront of exploring and developing new capabilities, bringing together people and technology to push boundaries and take real estate to a new level. More Information Awards Over the years we have been recognised as ‘best in class’ in a diverse range of disciplines. More Information Sustainability & ESG Savills UK sustainability strategy aims to achieve a positive impact on the environment and society, whilst maintaining robust governance measures. More Information Investor relations Savills Plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange within the FTSE250 index. Our annual reports and investor updates can be found online. Visit our Investor Relations site Diversity & Inclusion Savills is committed to eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity amongst our workforce. More information Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion is our hub for residential, commercial and rural articles and research from experts offering industry-leading advice and analysis. Research In-depth research and analysis into property market trends, forecasts from our specialist research teams, and market-leading commentary to help you make the right property decisions. Browse our market research Subscribe to Savills Research Residential reports Residential forecasts Office reports Retail reports Rural reports Residential property prices and trends ESG Research Industrial reports Residential development & investment Savills Indices Research services Webinars The Savills Blog The latest UK and international property market news and opinions, plus helpful guides and top tips from our renowned industry experts. Read the Savills Blog Savills News Up-to-the-minute news from our press teams providing the latest developments within Savills, and across the property industry. Read our press releases Savills Podcasts Keep yourself informed on the ‘real’ behind the real estate headlines, our podcast brings you engaging and insightful discussion with experts across our global business on the issues that matter most in property. Listen to the podcasts Portfolio by Savills Portfolio by Savills seamlessly blends the latest trends, inspirational lifestyle content, and the world’s finest properties with the expert insight and analysis you would expect from Savills. Portfolio has property at its heart, and we’d like you to be part of it. Explore Portfolio by Savills Contact us Find an office With over 40,000 people working across 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Our offices by region London East of England East Midlands North East North West South East South West West Midlands Yorkshire & The Humber Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Channel Islands Find a person Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Careers with Savills At Savills, our most valuable resource is our people. We are known for our positive, entrepreneurial culture, and for attracting some of the most innovative, dedicated and knowledgeable people in the business. More Information Current Vacancies General enquiries We're here to provide you with more information, answer any questions you may have, or connect you with the right people to help with your needs. Use our general enquiry form to get in touch today. Speak to the team 6 of the best...Former rectories Residential Sales 9 June 2023 From the recently renovated to the classically stylish, featured here are a few of our favourite examples currently on the market. Read this article > Home Consultancy Details Contacts & Related Articles Contact the team As specialists in their field, our consultancy teams cover a vast number of needs across all types of property. Drawing on intricate industry knowledge, long-standing experience and current market trends, they deliver bespoke advice to help clients with their property needs. From architectural design and heritage planning, to business rates and development project management, our sector-spanning expertise can be all-encompassing, covering the full lifecycle of any project from strategic planning through to completion. Our teams work across the UK and further afield, based in London and regional hubs, covering everything from city high rises to rural land and farming. Each of them has developed reputations as leaders in their respective fields, offering dedicated and unparalleled knowledge to apply to every instruction, backed by the wider research, expertise and resources of the Savills network. This, in turn, allows us to find solutions for our clients which balance innovation, quality, flexibility and value for money, whether they're a landlord, investor, developer, buyer or seller. Experts in Consultancy Simon Collett Executive Director Building & Project Consultancy Head Office London +44 (0) 20 7409 5951 Contact Now Martin Durgan Director Leasing Consultancy Head Office London +44 (0) 20 7409 8893 Contact Now Related Articles Student Accommodation Investor appetite for student accommodation strong, as UK expects to hit 1m university applicants a year by 2030 Commercial Investment Savills expands engineering consultancy in Glasgow Forestry Spotlight: The Forestry Market – April 2023 Services Consultancy Affordable Housing Consultancy Our team is dedicated to providing management consultancy services on affordable housing, with an emphasis on professional and cost-effective asset management. Read more Consultancy Architectural Design Our clients benefit from a full, end-to-end architectural design service. This entails advising private individuals and corporate entities, colleges and educational institutions, urban and rural estates and landowners on architectural aspects of commercial, residential, cultural, agricultural and leisure property projects. Read more Consultancy Building & Project Consultancy Our building and project consultancy service provides bespoke specialist solutions that can be applied across all technical aspects of acquisitions, development, ownership, occupation and disposal of property assets. Read more Consultancy Building Surveying No building project is driven by certainty, but the best ones are always supported by knowledge and insights. Read more Consultancy Business Rates Business rates are a tax on the occupation, or the right to occupy non-domestic property in the UK. Savills rating team can manage and mitigate this cost for clients, and has been doing so for over 100 years. Read more Consultancy Country House Consultancy Owning or running a country house or rural estate often involves dealing with complex and unique issues. Each needs to be resolved sensitively, cost-effectively and efficiently. Read more Consultancy Development Monitoring We provide independent advice on technical and construction matters, so that our clients understand the associated risks and opportunities relating to developments to help them make fully-informed decisions. Client types include institutional investors, banks, tenants and anyone else lending money for property development or off-plan purchases. Read more Consultancy Development Project Management Our work involves taking the strain off clients’ shoulders. We do this by taking on the project management of any property development, serving the interests of the investors, developers, owner occupiers or tenants who instruct us. Read more Consultancy Development Set Up Development set up is the vital collaborative link between the development, asset and management teams, ensuring a seamless approach to delivering an effective and operationally efficient end development from as early as planning RIBA Stage 2. Read more Consultancy Dilapidations Commercial property landlords and occupiers have various obligations: our job is to advise and guide them so that requirements to reinstate, repair, redecorate and comply with statute are carried out efficiently and effectively. Read more Consultancy Energy & Infrastructure Project Management As an energy or infrastructure project moves from concept to construction, Savills specialists can guide you smoothly and productively every step of the way. Read more Consultancy Energy Consulting Every property and project requires power. In a fast-moving market our job is to determine the right installation options, with an eye to long-term energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy. Read more Consultancy Estate & Tax Planning For many years, protecting estate, land and farm owners’ assets has been an intrinsic part of our estate management service. We know that early, efficient tax planning can turn a liability into a lucrative opportunity. Read more Valuation Expert Witness & Dispute Resolution We provide independent professional valuation advice to solicitors and other clients in relation to property disputes, and can also act as professional mediators and arbitrators when required. We act for both claimants and defendants and are also frequently instructed as Single Joint Experts. Read more Consultancy Family Office Every family office aims to centralise management to preserve, grow and transfer wealth: our role is to make the process as smooth and efficient as possible. Built on tax trusts and family governance foundations, our service is unique in linking the family office with significant and relevant expertise in the property industry. Read more Consultancy Farm Business Consultancy We help to optimise revenues and asset values of farms and rural businesses by providing an all-encompassing advisory and management service for farmers, land owners (private individuals, corporates, institutions and charities), rural businesses and those working in food processing/retailing. Read more Consultancy Flexible Workspace Consultancy Our experts provide market leading advice on all aspects of delivering flexible workspace, be it through partnership with an operator, or using your own resource and our expertise to deliver direct to market. Read more Consultancy Healthcare Consultancy Our healthcare consultancy specialists are dedicated to offering a range of bespoke services relating to healthcare real estate. Read more Consultancy Heritage & Townscape Planning When developing a heritage site or building, specialist planning guidance can spell the difference between a smooth ride and a rocky road. Read more Consultancy Lease Consultancy Our 25 highly experienced and senior-level sector specialists have explored every permutation, approach and tactic in negotiating and managing leases, both for occupiers and investors. Read more Consultancy London House Consultancy A large London home is a complex and valuable commodity: even when used as a family home, it needs to be managed like any other major asset in a wealth portfolio. Read more Consultancy Mediation When things go wrong, courts-based dispute resolution is an expensive, complicated and mutually unappealing option. Our independent and extensive knowledge of property means we can provide a mediation alternative, designed to resolve problems before litigation, tribunals or arbitration are needed. Read more Consultancy Minerals & Waste Consultancy Our team of nine minerals and waste experts operate out of regional offices in York, Chelmsford, Winchester and Cambridge, providing UK-wide professional advice to land owners and operators with interests in minerals and waste management property. Read more Consultancy New Build Project Management Self-build is not just a specialist area – it’s one that is growing in prevalence and profile. To help land owners, developers and private individuals plan and negotiate past the pitfalls to the opportunities, our team provides an all-encompassing professional service, via a single accountable point of contact. Read more Consultancy Party Walls & Neighbourly Matters Few property development areas raise hackles as much as party walls and other neighbour-related disputes. Our job is to steer clients past the dangers, resolving issues before they turn into anything more complicated. Read more Consultancy Planned Preventative Maintenance & Life Cycle Costings Whether a landlord, tenant or owner occupier, planning maintenance can do more than preserve a building or asset. It can also deliver significant financial benefits, recovering and reducing costs through planning efficiencies and economies of scale. Read more Consultancy Project Management In any property project, our experts can cover the full lifecycle from strategic planning through to completion. We work for investors, developers, landlords, owner occupiers and tenants, managing the development, refurbishment or fit-out of property across the full range of sectors. Read more Consultancy Refurbishment & Fit-Out Project Management It pays to have seasoned expertise to hand when undertaking a refurbishment or fit-out project. We offer the benefit of many years’ relevant knowledge and experience providing project management services to investors, developers, landlords, owner occupiers and tenants alike, managing their refurbishment and fit-out projects from inception to completion. Read more Consultancy Reinstatement Cost Assessments This specialist area of expertise sees us value the reinstatement cost of properties for insurance or accounting purposes, formerly known as fire insurance valuations. We establish rebuild and demolition costs and fees, covering reinstatement cost assessments and depreciated replacement cost assessments for single assets and property portfolios alike. Read more Consultancy Rural Diversification We help anyone who owns rural property diversify and find new sources of income by developing or redeveloping under-used assets, whether property or land. Read more Consultancy Rural Grants The difference between success and failure in securing rural grants can come down to specialist knowledge and following procedure properly. That is where our national team of grant funding experts can make a productive difference. Read more Consultancy Rural Landlord & Tenant Services Acting on behalf of land owners and occupiers alike, our rural specialists advise on all types of agricultural tenancies and the restructuring of farm holdings. This entails working with private landowners and farmers; institutional owners such as university colleges; and trading companies with land. Read more Consultancy Rural Rating Rural rating is one of the greatest pressures on doing business in the countryside. Our task is to help clients appeal them, limiting the amount levied on private and institutional clients. Read more Consultancy Technical Due Diligence Before making a decision on a property transaction, every client needs clear and objective advice. Experts work within our technical due diligence team, providing the insights needed to address technical and construction issues. Read more Consultancy Telecoms Site Acquisition, Design & Build Our team offers specialist guidance to clients when acquiring, designing and building a telecommunications site. Drawing on 20 years of experience in the field, our experts are able to apply their niche property development knowledge to any size or scale of project in the UK. Read more Consultancy Tourism, Leisure & Events Consultancy We provide comprehensive advice and hands-on support to help land owners, managers and trustees establish new enterprises and develop existing businesses. These range across tourism, events and leisure enterprises, usually conducted in and around historic houses, heritage sites and rural estates. Read more Consultancy Utilities & Wayleaves We secure consents and acquisitions for the water, electricity, gas and renewable sectors. Our services include land referencing, agricultural liaison, title reporting, structuring legal agreements, GIS mapping, data recording and compensation settlements. Read more Consultancy Viticulture Built upon the foundations of our expertise in property and land, our specialist team offers the nation’s most experienced one-stop advisory service across this emerging sector. All eight members of the team are dedicated to a specific field relevant to viticulture and everything to do with the wine industry. Read more Consultancy Workplace Strategy & Design Operating globally from our base in London, our award-winning interior architectural practice specialises in full service interior architecture and design, development advisory, and workplace strategy for occupiers. Read more Consultancy Workspace Leasing & Delivery Savills PIVOT offers a fully integrated service designed for building owners and occupiers with the purpose of accelerating the leasing and occupation of vacant or surplus workspace across the UK. Read more Subscribe to receive exclusive news and listings free Send Success! You are now subscribed to the Savills mailing list. Sorry, something went wrong. Residential Property For sale Property for sale Property for sale Scotland Property for sale England Property for sale Wales Property for sale in London Help to Buy in London Help to Buy in UK New developments for sale in England New developments for sale in London New developments for sale in Scotland For rent Property to rent in UK Property to rent Scotland Property to rent England Property to rent Wales Property to rent in London New developments to rent in England New developments to rent in London New developments to rent in Scotland Commercial Property For sale Commercial property for sale Development property for sale Industrial properties for sale Leisure properties for sale Offices for sale Hotels for sale Land for sale Industrial property for sale England Hotels for sale in England Offices for sale in England Flexible office space For rent Office property to let Industrial property to let Pubs to let Rural Property Rural property for sale Farms for sale Equestrian property for sale Country estates for sale International Property for sale in Europe Property for sale in France Property for sale in the US Property for sale in Italy Property for sale in Australia Offices All UK offices UK offices by county London Offices Find an office worldwide Services & Sectors Services Asset Management Buying or Selling Property Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Property Management Valuation Sectors Affordable Housing Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food and Farming Healthcare Hotels Industrial And logistics Infrastructure and Transport Leisure Minerals and Commodities Office & Business Space Public Sector Residential Retail Rural Senior Living Serviced Offices Student Accommodation Telecoms Trade-Related & Specialist Sectors Utilities Waste Management More Information Sitemap RSS Feeds Accessibility Feedback TDS Explained Provision of Services Slavery & Human Trafficking Terms & Conditions Privacy & Cookies Client Money Protection Scotland Letting Agent Code of Practice Help to Buy Calculator Residential Stamp Duty Calculator Commercial Stamp Duty Calculator Rental Yield Calculator Land & Buildings Transaction Tax (LBTT) Calculator ESG at Savills Fees & Charges Residential Tenant Fees & Charges Residential Landlord Fees & Charges Talk to Us Find a Savills Office Find a Savills Employee Book a Property Valuation Careers with Savills Ask a Question Investor Relations All content © copyright Savills. All rights reserved. Savills plc, incorporated and registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD. Registered number: 2122174. Savills plc is a holding company, some of whose subsidiaries are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and some of whose subsidiaries are regulated by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). Find us on social Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Facebook YouTube