Home Appalachian Trail AT Continental Divide Trail CDT Pacific Crest Trail PCT Apr 13, 2023 : Rachel Shoemaker Advice How To Read Blazes and Other Trail Markers G etting lost in the great outdoors—even for a short time—can really kill the vibe. One moment you’re in your groove, and the next, you’re standing in the middle of the trail, trying to recall the last time you saw a trail marker. You can’t remember. Conveniently though, you can remember a handful of scary movie plots in which the characters found themselves in situations much like the one you’re in now… Before your thoughts spiral any further, you take a deep breath and remember that you have a map, the FarOut App, and the sense to retrace your steps. Sure enough, just a few minutes later, you arrive back at a signed trail junction which clearly indicates that you should’ve made a right turn— whoops . Even on a well-maintained trail, navigation isn’t always straightforward. And if the path is obscured by snow, dead leaves, overgrown brush, etc., trail markers are essential to keep you on the right track. Knowing how to read trail markers like blazes, cairns, and signposts will help you stay found. Actual signpost from the Colorado Trail—not so scary to see in the daytime, fortunately. Oh, the Places You’ll Go! We all get turned around sometimes—and more often than not, it’s because of our own doing. Thankfully though, we’re usually pretty good at finding our way again. As with the scenario above, we can retrace our steps until we spot a recognizable landmark, e.g., a nicely signed junction or a painted blaze on a tree. This goes without saying, but trail markers—not to mention the trails themselves—aren’t a given. They only exist because hard-working trail crews and volunteers put them there. Thanks to these gracious folks, all we really have to do is keep an eye out for their handiwork as we walk from point A to B. NEXT – Appalachian Trail Interactive Map It’s probably safe to assume this trail didn’t just appear overnight. Admittedly, it also helps to know what trail markers look like. These markers—commonly referred to as blazes—come in all shapes, sizes, and colors. We’ll discuss how to read some of the most common types of trail markers below. How To Read Different Types of Trail Markers Posts First up are posts, which often come with a sign and/or marker attached. Posts can really come in handy when other materials, such as stones or trees, aren’t around. Signs that indicate the distance to various waypoints in either direction are especially useful, but take the mileages with a grain of salt: some trails (like the AT) are rerouted so frequently that the indicated distance may not be accurate anymore. Blazes Photo via Elise Mann . Ah, yes—the infamous two-inch by six-inch strip of white paint. The Appalachian Trail is famous for its white blazes, but other trails use blazes in different colors. What matters is that the same color is used consistently for the entire trail. This helps us distinguish one trail from another, especially at trail junctions. Blazes are normally painted on trees but may also appear on rock slabs or, in the case of the AT, on lampposts and the sides of underpasses when the trail leads through more populated areas. When hiking, pay attention to the appearance of the blazes and remember to look up every few minutes to make sure you’re still on the correct path. If you don’t see any blazes in front of you, check behind: blazes are normally painted on both sides of the tree to accommodate hikers going in either direction. Note: Painted blazes can be combined in several different patterns, each meaning something different. More on that later. Cairns Knowing how to read trail markers above treeline is as simple as getting a line of sight from one cairn to the next. Aka a pile of rocks. Cairns are typically found above treeline and/or areas with little to no vegetation. They’re the easiest way to mark a trail in areas where rocks are abundant, but trees to paint blazes on and soil to sink posts into are both in short supply. On boulder fields where no dirt footpath is evident, a hiker might have to navigate from one cairn to the other, pausing at each cairn to scout out the next one. Cairns might be six feet tall in areas with frequent fog and deep snowpack in winter, or they might be six inches tall in areas with good visibility that don’t see snow; trail builders determine the size necessary for the cairns to be easily visible. Note: We know it’s tempting to add rocks to existing cairns or make new ones altogether, but please refrain from doing so. You likely have good intentions, but adding on more signage disturbs the environment and can be confusing and potentially misleading. Affixed Markers With these types of blazes, metal, plastic, or wooden markers are nailed directly to the tree. These markers can also be affixed to posts. They’re common on western trails like the PCT, CDT, and Colorado Trail. Flagging Tape Tape is typically only used as a temporary trail marker while the path is being re-routed or worked on in some way. You might come across it while navigating through deadfall or walking through a burn scar, for instance. Photo via Green Mountain Club . Carved Blazes / Signs A blaze carved into a tree along the Colorado Trail. In the olden days, people marked trails by carving symbols or words into the bark of trees. Some trails, like the Colorado Trail, still have trees that bear the scars of old-fashioned carved blazes. This practice has largely fallen by the wayside in favor of lower-impact markers like painted blazes or affixed markers. However, trail maintainers sometimes cut the trail’s symbol or a mileage/elevation marker into a fresh stump after clearing deadfall with a chainsaw. How to Read Paint Blazes Clustered paint blazes often indicate turns, junctures, and more. This is a common practice on the Appalachian Trail in particular. Thankfully, the combinations are all fairly straightforward. If you see a multi-blaze pattern painted on a tree on the Appalachian Trail, it means a decision of some kind is coming up. Single Blaze A single blaze on the Appalachian Trail means the trail proceeds more or less straight ahead. Keep on keeping on. Double Blaze This blaze indicates a left turn coming up. One blaze stacked atop another indicates a turn in the trail. If the top blaze is offset to the right, it indicates that you should turn right. Meanwhile, if the top blaze is offset to the left, it indicates that you should turn left. If the blazes are stacked directly atop one another with no offset, it means a turn is coming up, and you have to figure out in which direction. It’s really up to each trail organization/club as to whether they use an offset in their turning blazes. Basically, make sure to pay a little extra attention if you see more than one rectangle. Triple Blaze Left = Intersection ahead. Middle = Trail starts. Right = Trail ends. Less common, but triple blazes indicate either a trailhead or an intersection coming up. The three triple blaze patterns are illustrated in the graphic above. Three rectangles arranged with the singleton to one side indicate that there’s an intersection ahead. Pay close attention so you don’t accidentally take off down the wrong trail! Three rectangles with the singleton on top indicate that the trail is starting. You can remember what this pattern means by visualizing it as an arrow pointing up. If, instead, the arrow is pointing down, that means the trail is ending. Note: Not All Trails Use Turning Blazes Not all trails use the above blaze patterns: many smaller trails just use individual rectangles to mark the way and don’t indicate turns or intersections. It’s up to you to continue following the correct blazes when the trail turns or branches. Likewise, small trail networks may use multi-rectangle blazes as another way to distinguish one trail from the other in addition to the color of the paint. A trail could be marked by two orange blazes stacked on top of each other, for instance. If every marker you pass looks like that, that pattern is probably just the trail’s chosen symbol rather than an indicator of a directional change. Signing Off Getting lost is scary. Fortunately, though, we can take measures—like knowing how to read trail markers—to avoid getting turned around in the first place. It’s always a good idea to pay attention to our surroundings. Besides, you never know what cool sights you’re missing if you keep your eyes on your feet the whole time! Subscribe to The Trek’s newsletter to stay up-to-date on all things hiking-related. < Previous Post Next Post > Affiliate Disclosure This website contains affiliate links, which means The Trek may receive a percentage of any product or service you purchase using the links in the articles or advertisements. The buyer pays the same price as they would otherwise, and your purchase helps to support The Trek's ongoing goal to serve you quality backpacking advice and information. Thanks for your support! To learn more, please visit the About This Site page. Popular Trail Correspondents: S4 Episode #5 | Expectations Vs. Reality Jun 6th : Trail Correspondents Thru Hiking Culture Top 10 Ways to Save Money in Town Jun 6th : Eloise Robbins Advice AT Festival in the Gap To Take Place on June 10 Jun 5th : Diane Duffard Appalachian Trail Backpacker Radio #204 | Little Skittle, Travis Avery, and Trail Days 2023 Jun 5th : Backpacker Radio Appalachian Trail Celebrate National Trails Day 2023 by Volunteering on Your Favorite Trail Jun 2nd : Kelly Floro Advice Gregory Jade 28 Day Pack Review Jun 1st : Lisa Slutsken Gear I Survived a Bear Attack on the Appalachian Trail May 31st : Lily Appalachian Trail Thru-Hiking Success Starts With a Smart Shakedown Hike May 31st : Mary Advice New Debt Ceiling Bill Would Fast-Track Mountain Valley Pipeline Completion May 30th : Kelly Floro Appalachian Trail Backpacker Radio #203 | Darwin Returns to Talk Evolved Supply Co., Documenting Sawyer's Philanthropy in Fiji, and Hosting a Travel Show May 29th : Backpacker Radio Backpacker Radio The Trek Apr 13th : Rachel Shoemaker Author Page Rachel Shoemaker's Bio Tip the Author Hey y'all, Rachel aka "Dobby" here! I use she/her pronouns and hail from Western NC. I called NH home for a bit as well, which is where my adventures in backpacking began. In 2018, I hiked all the 4,000-footers in the Northeast (NE67) and in 2020, I started hiking the PCT but ended up having to pause that journey for the time being. I joined a friend over on the Colorado Trail instead, which was an excellent decision (would recommend). I returned to the PCT in 2022, and was finally able to fulfill my dream (but probably won't ever stop dreaming about it). I'm in Vermont now, studying at VLGS to become an environmental attorney. When I'm not buried in books or glued to my computer screen, you can find me out on the trails with my furry best friend, Lily. Happy adventuring and thanks for following along! :) Comments 1 Kara Flanigan : Apr 16th Just coming off Roan High Knob today and the blazes were Wack. Good thing it was pretty clear where the trail went! Reply What Do You Think? Cancel reply Name * Email * Website Comment * Δ Articles All Posts Advice AT Bloggers CDT Bloggers Featured Gear Inspiration News PCT Bloggers Podcasts Thru-Hiking Culture Resources The Badger Sponsorship Apply to Be a Blogger Apply to Be a Writer AT Interactive Map AT Glossary Trail Name Generator Submit a Story Leave No Trace Writers & Bloggers the Trek Writers the Trek Bloggers Apply to Join Our Team The Books Appalachian Trials Pacific Crest Trials Appalachian Trials Signed Copy About About the Trek Our Team Press Terms of Service and Rules Contact Us Change Ad Consent Do not sell my data Thru-Hiker Gearlist Appalachian Trail Continental Divide Trail Pacific Crest Trail © 2023 Copyright The Trek.