My Foxtons Menu Buy Sell Rent Landlords Auctions House prices Inspiration About Contact Valuation Our services Home Rent Results Property Overview You are not logged in. Log in / Register ` Schools Transport Photos Floorplan Location Save 24 Photos Arrange a viewing Or call 020 7616 7000 Lancaster Gate, Lancaster Gate, W2 £3,000 pw £13,000 pcm Fees may apply Apartment 3 2 Exceptionally spacious throughout, this exquisite 3 bedroom duplex apartment boasts an expansive reception room with mezzanine level, 3 good large bedrooms with en-suites and lift access. Arrange a viewing £3,000 pw £13,000 pcm Fees may apply Or call us on 020 7616 7000 Key features Beautiful 3 bedroom duplex apartment Superb blend of original features and high ceilings Contemporary kitchen with dining area Fabulous reception room with floor to ceiling windows En suites, dressing rooms and sauna Imposing period conversion Finished to an exceptional high standard Set on a highly desirable street moments from Hyde Park Available with Zero Deposit My notes Add yourself a note Your note has been updated Save note Cancel (maximum length of note is 256 characters) Further details Deposit: This property is part of the Zero Deposit Guarantee scheme Council tax: Local authority: The City of Westminster Total Sq Ft: 2,414 (224 Sq M) approx. Reference: 23711543 Council tax is given as a guide only and should be checked and confirmed before exchange of contracts. Zero Deposit Guarantee The Zero Deposit Guarantee replaces the traditional deposit, making renting more affordable and freeing up cash for the moving process. Foxtons is partnering with Zero Deposit to offer this scheme on selected properties. The Zero Deposit Guarantee allows you to rent a property with the equivalent of one week's rent to be paid at the start of the tenancy. When you move out of the property the usual inventory and check-out take place and, as long as there is no damage or rent/bills outstanding, the Guarantee expires and you walk away. If the landlord does claim for reimbursement, rather than this being taken out of a prepaid deposit in the traditional system, you simply pay the amount required to the landlord. Any dispute between yourself and the landlord on this amount will be decided by the Tenancy Deposit Scheme. Understand more on www.zerodeposit.com Benefits of Foxtons Lettings Drastically speed up the rental process. Sign tenancy agreements online Pay securely online Manage documents online Track your deposit online Learn more or sign in / register Nearest stations Lancaster Gate station Central line, Zone: 1 Queensway station Central line, Zone: 1 Paddington station Elizabeth District Heathrow Express Hammersmith & City Circle Great Western Railway Bakerloo lines, Zone: 1 Energy Performance Certificates The Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) gives the building a standard energy and carbon emission efficiency grade from 'A' to 'G', where 'A' is the most efficient and 'D' being the average to date. Local Life Lancaster Gate is a highly desirable street set moments from the world famous Hyde Park. Whilst a variety of amenities and transport links can be found in nearby Paddington, Queensway and the West End. Lancaster Gate locals have kindly shared their favourite places to go... Hyde Park Stunning views at sunset in London's back garden.... Little Venice's Canals Picturesque walks and barge spotting along the waterways.... The Bridge House Classic pub food using fresh ingredients and a cosy atmosphere. The building is shared with the Canal Cafe Theatre, so pop upstairs for some fantastic acting! Discover more places around Lancaster Gate Interested in this property? Call Foxtons Notting Hill 020 7616 7000 Arrange a viewing Arrange a viewing When would you like to view this property? 9am to 12pm 12pm to 2pm 2pm to 6pm 6pm to 8pm If you would like a booking before 12pm tomorrow please call the office on 020 7616 7000 to check availability. Our offices are closed Please choose another date or call 020 7616 7000 No appointments are available Please choose another date or call 020 7616 7000 Arrange a viewing You might also be interested in... Finding a match Finding a match Finding a match Finding a match Finding a match Finding a match Finding a match Get a valuation Has your property's value increased? Call 0800 369 8667 to find out how much your property is worth W2 Local Intelligence Providing an insight into the W2 property market Tenants looking for properties through Foxtons Notting Hill 600 Studio 23 1 bed 167 2 bed 282 3 bed+ 82 Various 46 Popular rental searches nearby Properties to Rent in Lancaster Gate Houses to Rent in Lancaster Gate Flats to Rent in Lancaster Gate Apartments to Rent in Lancaster Gate Properties to Rent in Lancaster Gate Properties to Rent in W2 3 bedroom properties to Rent in Lancaster Gate Short Lets in this area Lancaster Gate Short Lets Bayswater Short Lets Central London Short Lets Search in nearby postcodes NW1 , NW8 , SW1 , SW7 , W1 , W11 , W8 , W9 Properties Let by Foxtons Notting Hill in the last 4 quarters 146 0 12 Months ago This quarter Market review Properties sold in W2 by all estate agents Properties sold in W2 by Foxtons Guide to Lancaster Gate Lancaster Gate house prices Lancaster Gate rental values How much do you think your property is worth now? Danielle Glance , Lettings Manager from Foxtons Notting Hill is our expert in this area: Online valuation Our local office Foxtons Notting Hill 90 Notting Hill Gate London W11 3HP Call 020 7616 7000 Estate agents in Lancaster Gate Estate agents in W2 We value your privacy We use necessary cookies to make our website work and we'd like to use other cookies to give you the most relevant experience. Click “Accept all” to agree to all cookies, or for more options click on “Change Settings”. For more information see our cookie policy Accept All Change Settings Privacy and Cookies Policy Introduction Strictly necessary Functionality cookies Performance cookies Performance cookies Performance cookies let us collect information about how the website is used. For example, we may record what pages are visited most. This data allows us to see where we could optimise the website and make it more efficient. Foxtons: tbp, twp2, tws. tco, referrer Foxtons uses performance cookies to help understand how our visitors use the website and how we can improve our website. We also host the following third-party solutions, which may set the following cookies: Google Analytics: _ga, _gat, _gat_UA-<TOKEN>, utmx, utmxx Google Analytics cookies are used to distinguish users and sessions and gather usage data related to your visit to our website so we can improve our website. AddThis: _atssc, _atuvc, _atuvs, _ Some pages may have the AddThis social plugin to allow you to share pages to your social network and for Foxtons to view reports on which pages were shared and how. Crazyegg: _ceir, is_returning, _CEFT, _ceg.s, _ceg.u, s, u, cer.s, cer.v Crazyegg is a third-party optimisation solution which helps us to test, analyse and improve each user's experience on the website based on their online behaviour. Functionality cookies Functionality cookies allow the website to remember settings such as the screen size, which lets us serve the right content without overloading any network or device capacity. mortgage - Stores your mortgage settings for use across the website. recent - Stores information of the last pages you have viewed. screen - Stores the screen size of the device that you are viewing our website on. This allows us to serve the right content for the device you are using without overloading your network and preserving best layout. Strictly necessary cookies Strictly necessary cookies allow you to log into your account and view account details without a need to log in again every time you navigate to subsequent page. These cannot be disabled. foxtons_session - Stores information about whether you are logged in into your account or not. visit_secure_token2 (session) - Stores information necessary to access your account. cookie_policy_displayed - Stores information about the cookie policy declaration. search - Stores your preferences as to how you prefer your results to be displayed i.e display 10 properties per page and price filter ‘from highest to lowest'. is_logged_in - Recognize when a user is logged in, to allow access to restricted areas of the site. What are cookies? To make your experience visiting the Foxtons website as simple and convenient as possible we place small data files known as "cookies" on your computer. This practice is used by many websites. Cookies are created when your browser loads the website. The website sends information to the browser which then creates a text file. Cookies are stored on your device for various periods of time, from as short time as the duration of your browsing session to several months. Every time you come back to the website, the browser retrieves and sends cookies to the server, which helps to improve your experience of the website by: Remembering settings, so you don't have to re-enter them every time you visit Remembering your last properties and searches, helping you to keep on top of new listings Measuring use of the website so that we can see where we can improve You can manage and/or delete these small files from your device, but please be aware that this will limit the functionality that we are able to offer to you. Allow all cookies Save preferences Find your next home Search Unlock the true value of your home Get a valuation Lettings & Property Management New to Foxtons? Instruct us Existing customers Login to My Foxtons Explore news articles, area guides and interior design trends Setting the standard in estate agency We combine best-in-class people and technology to set the standard for service in estate agency Find your nearest office Find your nearest office Our Services Setting the standard in estate agency First time buyers How much can I borrow? Guide to buying Moving home How much is my home worth? Register with Foxtons Find a property New Homes availability Asia Pacific Help for buyers Advantages of choosing Foxtons Mortgages Conveyancing Stamp Duty calculator Why buy a new build? Property Surveys and Lease Extensions Our services Sell your home Foxtons Private Office How much is your home worth? Book a valuation appointment Help Help & Guides Contact us Rental searches Lettings Short lets Corporate relocation Student accommodation Tenant advice Guide to renting Right to Rent Why use Foxtons? Area guides Your tenancy Register with Foxtons My tenancy in My Foxtons Fees & terms Tenant support Our services Find tenants Property Management Specialist services Short lets Help being a landlord Help & Guides Buy to Let Mortgages Property inspiration Blog Interior Design Local life Area guides Schools Let's get social Facebook Twitter Instagram Our company About us Our history Investor Relations Careers Inside Foxtons News from Foxtons Foxtons' Minis Testimonials Social Media Community Community Environment People Our services Register to find a new home Valuation New Homes Corporate Relocations Customer services Opening hours Existing Lettings Feedback Complaints Internal enquiries Press Reports Recruitment Investor Relations All other enquiries Buying and Selling Buying New Homes Selling Landlords and Renting Landlords Property Management Renters Short lets Specialist Services B2R & Institutional PRS Foxtons Private Office Corporate relocation Asia Pacific About Foxtons About Foxtons Estate Agent Sales jobs in London Property Management in London Tenancy FAQs Mobile apps Branch Finder Our estate agencies Central London estate agents East London estate agents North London estate agents South London estate agents Surrey estate agents West London estate agents Popular searches London property for sale London lettings London short lets New Homes in London Property intelligence Area guides House price reports Rental reports Home valuation service © Foxtons Estate Agents Investors Terms and Conditions & Privacy Policy Cookies Policy Sitemap