Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 35 35 Medlock Road, Woodhouses, Failsworth, Manchester See map Offers in Region of £1,400,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Reduced on 31/05/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Farm House BEDROOMS ×3 BATHROOMS ×3 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 2 Key features Medlock Road, Woodhouses, Manchester Extensive Gated Estate, approx 1.2 Hectares Large Agricultural Barn Significant Area Of Parking / Hardstanding Set Back From Main Road Existing Beautiful Home With Potentially 4/5 Bedrooms Great Scope For Potential Development Viewing Highly Recommended - By Appointment Only Property description A substantial, detached family home with easy potential to become 4/5 bedrooms. Located in a highly desirable area amongst substantial grounds, with a further detached large barn, ample parking within a gated setting and excellent potential development scope. This property is an outstanding and rare opportunity, superbly positioned on the verge of open countryside. Jericho Farm, Medlock Road, Woodhouses, Manchester is a significant property with a further large detached barn of around 3,000sqft itself. Set around an extensive area of parking / hardstanding, the site itself amounts to approximately 1.2 hectares and could potentially offer great scope for further development, subject to necessary consents of course. Already providing substantial living accommodation, the property has been thoughtfully extended and is well presented, offering good living space with 4/5 bedroom scope. Gardens and grounds encircle the property, which enjoys a comparatively private and tucked-away setting as a result. In addition to the extensive outside space which could ideally suit a variety of uses, within the grounds too are lovely areas of planting, wooded aspects and a section of brook, set below to the north of the curtilage. Viewing here is certainly highly recommended, to fully appreciate the scale of the site on offer, as well of course as the great standard of accommodation provided and potential scope either for further development, or suitability for a range of purposes accordingly. Internally, this property briefly comprises: Entrance Hall, Lounge / Dining Room, Dining Kitchen, Hallway, Utility, Master Bedroom with Dressing Room and En-Suite Bathroom, Bedroom 2 with Jack & Jill En-Suite Wet Room. Off the first floor Landing are Bedroom 3, Shower Room and the Galleried Landing which could easily offer scope to become Bedrooms 4 & 5. Externally, there is the large detached barn, amounting to some 3,000sqft approximately. Gardens and grounds surround the living accommodation, including an unusually generous area of parking / hardstanding. Further grounds included mature wooded aspects and planted areas, with the whole site being accessed through an electric gated entrance from Medlock Road itself. Making the most of its comparatively tucked-away gated setting, the property sits on the verge of nearby open countryside, affording easy access to lovely surroundings. Within walking distance, Woodhouses Sports Club, Brookdale Golf Club and other local destinations provide options for entertainment, while Daisy Nook Country Park and Garden Centre is just over a mile away. Manchester City Centre itself is easily reached too, for the comprehensive amenities that this major hub has to offer for leisure, entertainment and commerce too. Viewing Essential - Strictly By Appointment Only. Entrance Hall - 2.60m x 1.48m (8'6" x 4'10") - Lounge / Dining Room - 7.77m x 5.91m (25'6" x 19'5") - Kitchen/Breakfast Room - 7.00m x 6.69m (23'0" x 21'11") - Hallway - 9.99m x 2.00m (32'9" x 6'7") - Master Bedroom - 4.23m x 5.78m (13'11" x 19'0") - Dressing Room - 2.95m x 2.20m (9'8" x 7'3") - En-Suite Bathroom - 2.93m x 2.19m (9'7" x 7'2") - Bedroom 2 - 4.26m x 4.57m (14'0" x 15'0") - Jack And Jill Wet Room - 2.53m x 2.23m (8'4" x 7'4") - Utility - 2.27m x 0.91m (7'5" x 3'0") - Galleried Landing Lounge / Potential Bedroom 4 - 5.55m x 5.76m (18'3" x 18'11") - Bedroom 3 - 4.24m x 5.78m (13'11" x 19'0") - Shower Room - 1.69m x 3.19m (5'7" x 10'6") - Electric Gated Access - Large Barn - Ample Parking - Rear Garden - Agents Notes - Council Tax: Band 'G' Tenure: Freehold Stamp Duty: 0% up to £125,000, 2% of the amount between £125,001 and £250,000, 5% of the amount between £250,001 & £925,000, 10% of the amount between £925,001 & £1,500,000, 12% of the remaining amount above £1,500,000. For some purchases, an additional 3% surcharge may be payable on properties with a sale price of £40,000 and over. Please call us for any clarification on the new Stamp Duty system or to find out what this means for your purchase. Disclaimer F&C - Unless stated otherwise, these details may be in a draft format subject to approval by the property's vendors. Your attention is drawn to the fact that we have been unable to confirm whether certain items included with this property are in full working order. Any prospective purchaser must satisfy themselves as to the condition of any particular item and no employee of Fine & Country has the authority to make any guarantees in any regard. The dimensions stated have been measured electronically and as such may have a margin of error, nor should they be relied upon for the purchase or placement of furnishings, floor coverings etc. Details provided within these property particulars are subject to potential errors, but have been approved by the vendor(s) and in any event, errors and omissions are excepted. These property details do not in any way, constitute any part of an offer or contract, nor should they be relied upon solely or as a statement of fact. In the event of any structural changes or developments to the property, any prospective purchaser should satisfy themselves that all appropriate approvals from Planning, Building Control etc, have been obtained and complied with. Brochures Brochure Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EE Rating Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: G Medlock Road, Woodhouses, Failsworth, Manchester Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Failsworth Station 1.1 miles Droylsden Tram Stop 1.3 miles Edge Lane Tram Stop 1.3 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Fine & Country, Rossendale 1a-1b Bank Street, Rawtenstall, Rossendale, BB4 6QS At Fine & Country, we offer a refreshing approach to selling exclusive homes, combining individual flair and attention to detail with the expertise of local estate agents to create a strong international network, with powerful marketing capabilities. Moving home is one of the most important decisions you will make; your home is both a financial and emotional investment. We understand that it's the little things ' without a price tag ' that make a house a home, and this makes us a valuab Read more More properties from this agent Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Fine & Country, Rossendale 1a-1b Bank Street, Rawtenstall, Rossendale, BB4 6QS More properties from this agent Call agent : 01706 335213 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 31981818. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Fine & Country, Rossendale . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 01706 335213 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho