Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. Find out more Manage cookies Allow all cookies Manage Cookies Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. For more information about how we and our partners use cookies on our site, see our Cookie Policy Strictly necessary These cookies are necessary for the Savills website to function. Examples of this include: setting your privacy preferences, logging in to your Savills account, or filling in forms. Though these cookies cannot be switched off, you can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but please be aware that this will stop some parts of the Savills website from functioning as intended. Find out more about strictly necessary cookies here . Always allowed Functional cookies These cookies are used to enhance the performance of the Savills website, as without them certain functions of the website may not be available. While they are not vital for the website to run, they allow us to remember important information and your preferences such as previous location searches. Find out more about functional cookies here . Allow Targeting & tracking These cookies record your activity on the Savills website and our partners may use that information to show you adverts that they think you will be most interested in when you visit other websites. We may also use information recorded by these cookies to see how well these adverts are performing. Find out more about targeting and tracking cookies here . Allow Save and close Allow all cookies Location and Language Selection Close United Kingdom Location Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe United Kingdom Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe Language English English English Book a valuation Search Close Site Search: Search My Account Menu Menu > Find a property > Market your property > Find a service > Why Savills > Insight & Opinion > Contact us Close Find a property Find a property Whether buying a townhouse or selling a country cottage, leasing corporate office space or renting farmland, our experts make it their business to understand your needs and help you find the right property. Search for a property Residential Search for a residential property Buy a property in London Rent a property in London New homes for sale Properties in Europe Properties in the Caribbean Properties in the US Properties in Asia Pacific Properties in The Alps Farms & Estates Search for rural property Farms for sale Estates for sale Equestrian property for sale Commercial Search for a commercial property Offices to lease in the UK Development land for sale in the UK Retail properties Industrial properties to lease Leisure properties for sale Hotels for sale Flexible office space Investment properties for sale Residential investment Student housing investment Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert What's your property worth? Get expert advice for residential, commercial or rural property, grounded in our experience and knowledge of local, regional and international markets. Arrange a market appraisal Property auctions As one of the UK’s leading auction houses, we offer a large selection of residential and commercial property for sale by auction. More Information Where are residential property sales holding up the strongest? Residential Sales 31 May 2023 We forecast that limited mortgage availability and high interest rates would see home buying activity levels fall in 2023. Read this article Market your property Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an agent Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Market your property Whether you're planning to sell, rent or are undecided, we have an expert who can help. More Information Selling a Residential Property Letting a Residential Property Auctioning a Property Selling a Mews Property Selling New-Build Property Selling International Property Selling a Farm Selling a Fishing Beat Selling a Forest or Woodland Selling a Quarry or Waste Management Facility Selling a Shoot Selling an Estate Selling Country Property Selling Equestrian Property Selling Waterfront Property Interior, Furnishing and Refurbishment Services Private Office Selling Commercial Property Selling Healthcare Property Selling Leisure or Trade-Related Property Real Estate Insights Podcast: Impacts 2023: what is the purpose of property? Research 7 June 2023 Our latest podcast discusses how financial, environmental and social purposes intersect, and how they can be measured, as well as unveiling some of the key findings to emerge from this year’s Impacts publication. Read this article Find a service Find a service Savills offers a wide range of specialist services from financial and investment advice to valuation, planning and property management. More Information Asset Management Auctions Buying or Selling Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Private Office Property Management Research Savills Earth (ESG Consulting) Valuation Browse by sector Our services cover a broad range of property sectors. More Information Affordable Housing Auctions Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food & Farming Forestry Healthcare High St/In Town Retail Hotels Industrial & Logistics Infrastructure Leisure Marine Minerals & Commodities Mixed Use Office & Business Space Operational Capital Markets Out of Town Retail Public Sector Pubs, Bars & Restaurants Residential Residential Investment & Development Residential Development Sales Retail Rural Science & Technology Senior Living Serviced Offices Shopping Centres Trade-Related Sports Venues Student Accommodation Telecoms Utilities Visitor Attractions Vineyards Waste Management Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Find your nearest office With over 40,000 people working across more than 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Why Savills Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise spans the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East. More Information How we work Our integrity, honesty and professionalism is what gives our clients, colleagues, investors and business partners the confidence to work with us. More Information Innovation and technology Savills is at the forefront of exploring and developing new capabilities, bringing together people and technology to push boundaries and take real estate to a new level. More Information Awards Over the years we have been recognised as ‘best in class’ in a diverse range of disciplines. More Information Sustainability & ESG Savills UK sustainability strategy aims to achieve a positive impact on the environment and society, whilst maintaining robust governance measures. More Information Investor relations Savills Plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange within the FTSE250 index. Our annual reports and investor updates can be found online. Visit our Investor Relations site Diversity & Inclusion Savills is committed to eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity amongst our workforce. More information Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion is our hub for residential, commercial and rural articles and research from experts offering industry-leading advice and analysis. Research In-depth research and analysis into property market trends, forecasts from our specialist research teams, and market-leading commentary to help you make the right property decisions. Browse our market research Subscribe to Savills Research Residential reports Residential forecasts Office reports Retail reports Rural reports Residential property prices and trends ESG Research Industrial reports Residential development & investment Savills Indices Research services Webinars The Savills Blog The latest UK and international property market news and opinions, plus helpful guides and top tips from our renowned industry experts. Read the Savills Blog Savills News Up-to-the-minute news from our press teams providing the latest developments within Savills, and across the property industry. Read our press releases Savills Podcasts Keep yourself informed on the ‘real’ behind the real estate headlines, our podcast brings you engaging and insightful discussion with experts across our global business on the issues that matter most in property. Listen to the podcasts Portfolio by Savills Portfolio by Savills seamlessly blends the latest trends, inspirational lifestyle content, and the world’s finest properties with the expert insight and analysis you would expect from Savills. Portfolio has property at its heart, and we’d like you to be part of it. Explore Portfolio by Savills Contact us Find an office With over 40,000 people working across 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Our offices by region London East of England East Midlands North East North West South East South West West Midlands Yorkshire & The Humber Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Channel Islands Find a person Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Careers with Savills At Savills, our most valuable resource is our people. We are known for our positive, entrepreneurial culture, and for attracting some of the most innovative, dedicated and knowledgeable people in the business. More Information Current Vacancies General enquiries We're here to provide you with more information, answer any questions you may have, or connect you with the right people to help with your needs. Use our general enquiry form to get in touch today. Speak to the team 6 of the best...Former rectories Residential Sales 9 June 2023 From the recently renovated to the classically stylish, featured here are a few of our favourite examples currently on the market. Read this article > Home Letting or Renting Residential landlord fees and charges Details Contacts & Related Content What we charge you depends on what kind of property you're letting and which service you'd like. Your local team will talk you through our terms of business and confirmation of instruction, the services we offer and what your fees will be. All fees and charges are shown including VAT. My property is in London/Rest of the UK My property is in Birmingham/Manchester Landlord Fees and Charges London and the rest of the UK (except Birmingham & Manchester) Letting, renewal and receiving rent for London and Rest of the UK: 15%* of rent for the whole time your tenant stays in the property We'll: Discuss local market conditions Advise on preparing your property for letting Keep you up to date on compliance and health & safety Put up a To Let board Market the property and advertise on relevant portals Arrange and accompany viewings Collect & hold the deposit Ask tenants to set up rent payments and pass monies on Make any necessary HMRC deduction Chase late rent payments Discuss renewal or termination *Minimum fee London: £1,800 *Minimum fee other regions: £1,200 Short lets (less than six months): 24% of rent Minimum fee all regions: £1,000 Letting, renewal, receiving rent and management for London and most of the UK: 20.4%* of rent for the whole time your tenant stays in the property In addition to the tenant find service we’ll: Deal with day to day management including repairs Give utility suppliers meter readings when the tenancy starts and ends Hold a working fund and make payments Organise the following safety checks; gas safety record, electrical safety tests, smoke and carbon monoxide alarms Visit the property at least once a year Provide an emergency out of hours service Manage the end of tenancy process and deposit return *Minimum fee London £3,000 *Minimum fee other regions £2,400 Short lets (less than six months): 30% of rent Minimum fee all regions: £2,000 Management-only service: £600 handover and 7.2% of rent payable minimum fee £1,800 Vacant management (before you let or between tenancies): This depends on what you need: minimum monthly fee £120 Pre letting service (visual check): £600 Sale of property (including sales progression): 2.4% of the agreed sale price The following charges relate to all tenancy types: Service Charge Land registry check £4.80 Tenancy paperwork £300 Making an inventory For example for a 3-bed unfurnished £300, third-party charge Paperwork for renewing a tenancy £200 Cancelling a let before a tenant moves in £350 plus costs Interest on unpaid fees or other money 3% above Bank of England base rate per annum, calculated daily The following charges depend on your tenancy type: Service Assured shorthold tenancies Non housing tenancies Company tenancies Charge Right to Rent checks £60 per person Deposit registration £48 per year Inventory check-in Third-party charge e.g. for 3-bed unfurnished £216 3rd party charge e.g for 3 bed unfurnished £216. Your tenancy agreement will say if the tenant will pay one of these charges or if you’re liable for both Inventory check-out Third-party charge e.g. for 3-bed unfurnished £216 3rd party charge e.g for 3 bed unfurnished £216. Your tenancy agreement will say if the tenant will pay one of these charges or if you’re liable for both Tenant and/or guarantor references £45 per person Change of sharer £425 Change of additional sharer that takes place at the same time as above £75 Right to Rent expiring time limited document check £96 per person The below charges depend on whether or not you ask us to carry out any of the services: Service Assured shorthold tenancies Non housing tenancies Company tenancies Charge Change in ownership set-up, per property based on the work involved £120 - £600 Serving a Section 13 Notice £96 Serving a Section 21 Notice £96 Notice to quit £50 Attending court per hour £120 Attending court (one of our Directors) per hour £240 Sending a CHAPS (same day) payment in the UK £30 Making a payment outside the UK £30 Submitting non-resident landlord returns to HMRC per landlord £120 per quarter Consolidated statement £30 per copy Copy of head lease from the HM Land Registry website (where available) £4.80 Transferring deposit to landlord or other agent during tenancy £120 Helping you recover deposits through TDS adjudication £120 per hour For managed tenancies only: Handle payment of any service charges £120 per year Arranging works or refurbishment over £1,000 14.4% of net cost of works Getting quotes, if you then organise the work yourself £600 Getting quotes, if you then decide against any work £120 Meeting contractors, third parties to assist with insurance claims, HMO visits and/or any additional property visits £120 per visit Any license holding (where you live outside of the UK and the local authority scheme insists on a UK-based holder) £150 per year For non-managed tenancies only: Arranging inventory appointment £60 per appointment Landlord Fees and Charges Birmingham & Manchester Tenant find service for Manchester and birmingham: A fee equivalent to one month rent plus VAT * We'll: Discuss local market conditions Advise on preparing your property for letting Keep you up to date on compliance and health & safety Put up a To Let board Market the property and advertise on relevant portals Arrange and accompany viewings Prepare tenancy paperwork Collect & hold the deposit Ask tenants to set up rent payments and pass monies on Make any necessary HMRC deduction Chase late rent payments Discuss renewal or termination *Minimum fee Manchester and Birmingham: £840 inc VAT Tenant Find & Property Management Service FOR MANCHESTER AND BIRMINGHAM: Tenant find fee set out above, plus 12%* of the rent for the whole time the tenant stays in the property We'll: Deal with day to day management including repairs Give utility suppliers meter readings when the tenancy starts and ends Hold a working fund and make payments Organise the following safety checks; gas safety record, electrical safety tests, smoke and carbon monoxide alarms Visit the property at least once a year Provide an emergency out of hours service Manage the end of tenancy process and deposit return *Minimum fee Manchester and Birmingham: £840 inc VAT Vacant management (before you let or between tenancies) This depends on what you need: Minimum monthly fee £120 Management only service 12% of rent payable Sale of Property (including sales progression) 2.4% of the agreed sale price Extra optional and non-optional fees & charges: Service Charge Right to Rent checks £60 Follow up checks £96 Deposit registration (AST) per year £48 Change of sharer £375 For each additional change of sharer at the same time £75 Change of ownership set up £120 - £600 Handle payment of service charges per year £120 Helping with deposit adjudication (AST) per hour £120 Annual license holding per year £150 Inventory Preparation and check in £180 Inventory check out £180 Meeting contractors, third parties to assist with insurance claims, HMO visits and/or any additional property visits per visit £120 Arranging works or refurbishment over £1,000 14.4% of net cost Quarterly return to HMRC per landlord £120 Consolidated statement per copy £30 Tenancy renewal paperwork £200 Cancelling a let before the tenant moves in £350 + costs Transferring deposit to landlord or other agent during tenancy £120 Arranging key cutting £12 + costs Preparing and serving notices: Section 13 notice £96 Preparing and serving notices: Section 21 notice £96 Preparing and serving notices: Notice to quit £50 The service of S21 notice and Notice to Quit is included for our managed clients. Attending court per hour £120 Attending court per hour for a Director £240 Making a payment outside the UK £30 Making a same day payment in the UK £30 Interest on unpaid fees or other money due at 3% above Bank of England base rate per annum, calculated daily. Client money protection (CMP) provided by RICS: rics.org/clientmoneyprotectionscheme Get in touch Find a person or office to assist you. Whether you're a private individual or a property professional we've got someone who can help. Find a person or an office Subscribe to receive exclusive news and listings free Send Success! You are now subscribed to the Savills mailing list. Sorry, something went wrong. Residential Property For sale Property for sale Property for sale Scotland Property for sale England Property for sale Wales Property for sale in London Help to Buy in London Help to Buy in UK New developments for sale in England New developments for sale in London New developments for sale in Scotland For rent Property to rent in UK Property to rent Scotland Property to rent England Property to rent Wales Property to rent in London New developments to rent in England New developments to rent in London New developments to rent in Scotland Commercial Property For sale Commercial property for sale Development property for sale Industrial properties for sale Leisure properties for sale Offices for sale Hotels for sale Land for sale Industrial property for sale England Hotels for sale in England Offices for sale in England Flexible office space For rent Office property to let Industrial property to let Pubs to let Rural Property Rural property for sale Farms for sale Equestrian property for sale Country estates for sale International Property for sale in Europe Property for sale in France Property for sale in the US Property for sale in Italy Property for sale in Australia Offices All UK offices UK offices by county London Offices Find an office worldwide Services & Sectors Services Asset Management Buying or Selling Property Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Property Management Valuation Sectors Affordable Housing Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food and Farming Healthcare Hotels Industrial And logistics Infrastructure and Transport Leisure Minerals and Commodities Office & Business Space Public Sector Residential Retail Rural Senior Living Serviced Offices Student Accommodation Telecoms Trade-Related & Specialist Sectors Utilities Waste Management More Information Sitemap RSS Feeds Accessibility Feedback TDS Explained Provision of Services Slavery & Human Trafficking Terms & Conditions Privacy & Cookies Client Money Protection Scotland Letting Agent Code of Practice Help to Buy Calculator Residential Stamp Duty Calculator Commercial Stamp Duty Calculator Rental Yield Calculator Land & Buildings Transaction Tax (LBTT) Calculator ESG at Savills Fees & Charges Residential Tenant Fees & Charges Residential Landlord Fees & Charges Talk to Us Find a Savills Office Find a Savills Employee Book a Property Valuation Careers with Savills Ask a Question Investor Relations All content © copyright Savills. All rights reserved. Savills plc, incorporated and registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD. Registered number: 2122174. Savills plc is a holding company, some of whose subsidiaries are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and some of whose subsidiaries are regulated by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). Find us on social Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Facebook YouTube