Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 23 1 23 1 Leftbank, Manchester, M3 See map Guide Price £1,795,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 10/02/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Penthouse BEDROOMS ×3 BATHROOMS ×2 TENURE Leasehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features 24 Hour concierge service Amazing views over the city and River Irwell Code access only to the top floor Wraparound balcony and sizeable terrace Two secure car parking spaces Secret hidden office with keypad access Duplex apartment Video tour available EPC Rating = D Property description Exclusive three double bedroom apartment in the heart of Spinningfields. Completely one of a kind with two parking spaces, this is not one to miss. Description Outstanding top floor penthouse apartment in one of Manchester's most exclusive developments, Leftbank. Positioned in the heart of Spinningfields, this unique executive home is truly one of a kind, and will no doubt be a special place to reside in the city for the discerning purchaser. Offering an unrivalled level of internal and external living accommodation, this apartment briefly comprises to the 15th floor a sizeable reception, dining and kitchen area, with access out to the wraparound balcony and terrace. Offering outstanding views across the city and River Irwell, the terrace provides a serene sitting to relax outdoors in the bustling city centre. Additionally to this floor is the primary bedroom which houses separate his and hers walk-in wardrobes, en suite bathroom and a separate room that can be utilised for a variety of purposes (nursery, office etc.). Direct balcony access is provided via this room as well as the primary bedroom. There is a further separate WC and entrance hallway which provides access to each room. Heading downstairs, you will find two further double bedrooms and a shower room. One of the most special parts of this apartment is the hidden office room, accessible only via a secret keypad! Bespoke design and an elegant mahogany finish, it is the perfect finishing touch to this magnificent property. Undoubtedly with no expense spared throughout here, smart home technologies, luxury finishes to kitchens/bathrooms and two secure parking spaces come as standard. Leftbank itself was developed firstly by Westbury Homes and latterly by Persimmon and comprises a fantastic mix of 1, 2 and 3 bedroom apartments offering a variety of styles for the discerning buyer. Currently tenanted at £9,500pcm, vacant possession is also available should the buyer require. Please enquire with the local office for more details. This property has cladding, as far as we know the current position with the property is: It’s been tested and works are required however there are interim measures in place * You should make enquires about the external wall system of the property, if it has cladding and if it is safe or if there are interim measures in place. We are advised that there are no associated costs to leaseholders with respect to works to obtain the EWS1 form. Marketing photographs taken November 2018. Location Leftbank enjoys an unrivalled location set in the heart of Spinningfields. St Peter's Square tram stop (0.3m) is situated close by for great access to Manchester's tram network, whilst Salford Central station is 0.2m distance for rail links. Deansgate (0.1m) further offers a variety of transport links, as well as a host of shopping available, from local groceries, to high end retail. Sports and entertainment are within easy reach also. Manchester's famous football stadiums Old Trafford (home to Manchester United) and the Etihad (home to Manchester City) are 2.4m and 2.6m away respectively. The Manchester Velodrome, part of the National Cycling Centre is also 3.2m distance. For cultural activities, locally residents are only 0.5m from Castlefield Bowl which often hosts an array of food festivals and music gigs. Please note all distances quoted are approximate. Square Footage: 3,018 sq ft Leasehold with approximately 133 years remaining. Additional Info Service charge pa: £10,400 per annum Ground rent pa: £250 (subject to review every 25 years', rent shall be twice payable the prior rent amount during the preceding 25 years', next review due 2026) Leasehold expiry date: 03/05/2156 Council tax: Manchester, Band G Brochures Web Details Read more Tenure: Leasehold You buy the right to live in a property for a fixed number of years, but the freeholder owns the land the property's built on. Read more about tenure type in our glossary page. GROUND RENT A regular payment made by the leaseholder to the freeholder, or management company. Read more about ground rent in our glossary page. £250 per year ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE A regular payment for things like building insurance, lighting, cleaning and maintenance for shared areas of an estate. They're often paid once a year, or annually. Read more about annual service charge in our glossary page. £10400 LENGTH OF LEASE How long you've bought the leasehold, or right to live in a property for. Read more about length of lease in our glossary page. 132 years left Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Rating Graph Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: G Leftbank, Manchester, M3 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Salford Central Station 0.1 miles G-Mex Tram Stop 0.3 miles St Peters Square Tram Stop 0.5 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Savills, Manchester 50 Bridge Street, Manchester, M3 3BW Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise span the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa, and the Middle East. Our scale gives us wide-ranging specialist and local knowledge, and we take pride in providing best-in-class advice as we help individuals, businesses and institutions make better property decisions. Outstanding property We have been advising on Read more More properties from this agent Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Savills, Manchester 50 Bridge Street, Manchester, M3 3BW More properties from this agent Call agent : 0161 524 3346 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference MNS220063. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Savills, Manchester . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0161 524 3346 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho