Search Report a repair Contact us My Move Account Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Sell Property valuation Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Local Sold House Prices Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Looking to move? Get your property valuation Get your conveyancing solicitor Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations How much can I afford? - use our budget planner and find out Something need fixing - Report a repair Landlords Rental valuation Book an accurate lettings valuation Get an instant online valuation Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations Looking to let? Get your property valuation Get your property managed New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Mortgages Mortgage Services Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Book your mortgage appointment About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection Branches Sales Amersham Hazlemere and Great Missenden High Wycombe Princes Risborough Land & New Homes Lettings Amersham High Wycombe Princes Risborough Fine & Country Fine & Country South Buckinghamshire Other departments Sales Progression Property Management JNP Handyman Services Head Office xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? My Move xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Branches xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Report a repair - Fixflo Branches Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Sell Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Local Sold House Prices Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Existing tenants Report a maintenance issue What to do in an emergency Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations Landlords Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Mortgages Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Careers About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection You're in control We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. To learn more about how we use cookies, please see our Cookie Policy . You can manage your preferences now on this banner, or via your browser at anytime. Functional Active Inactive Analytical Active Inactive Non-essential Active Inactive Manage Accept Home Mortgages Find your next mortgage Get the right mortgage deal for you with Embrace Financial Services. What can I afford? Book an appointment Rated Excellent by our customers Mortgage services with Embrace Financial Services Whether you're a first time buyer, moving home, looking for help getting onto the property ladder or an experienced buy-to-let investor, you will want to get the best mortgage to suit your individual needs. JNP are able to introduce mortgage services to you through Embrace Financial Services, a mortgage broker with a team of expert financial advisers. Plus with fantastic new technology you could get a Mortgage in Principle within only 30 minutes. How much could you borrow? Annual Income (£) Applicant one * Applicant two Book an appointment You could borrow £ • This information is a guide only and should not be relied on as a recommendation or advice, that any particular mortgage is suitable for you. • All mortgages are subject to the applicant(s) meeting the eligibility criteria of the specific lender. • You should make an appointment to receive mortgage advice which will based on your needs and circumstances. What mortgage do I need? Mortgage If you are a first time buyer there are a selection of mortgage types to choose from. Our advisers can help guide you to the right one. Remortgage Remortgaging is when you replace your current mortgage without moving house. Your current deal could be coming to an end or you might want to release some equity. Buy to Let Buy to let mortgages are for people who want to invest in a property in order to rent it out. If you are buying with the sole intention of renting then you need a Buy to Let mortgage. Help to Buy As a first time buyer there may be different mortgage rates open to you. Including the 95% Help to Buy Mortgage Guarantee Scheme. Book your mortgage appointment 1 2 3 Address Choose date Your details Postcode * Find Select your address Confirm Address Date and time Confirm date & time Mortgage details Why do you need a mortgage? * Please choose Buying your first home Moving home Remortgaging Do you have at least a 10% deposit / 90% LTV ratio? * Please choose Yes No Not sure Is this a single or joint mortgage? * Please choose Single Joint Title * Please choose Mr Mrs Miss Ms Forename * Surname * Email * Phone number * Alternative phone number Second applicant details Their title * Mr Mrs Miss Ms Their first name * Their surname * xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Their address is different * Their postcode * Find Select your address Book an appointment Reasons to choose Embrace Financial Services 98% Customers would recommend * 5,200 First time buyers on property ladder 17,400 Mortgage applications submitted £3 billion Mortgage submissions valued Internal statistics 2022. Choice They have access to 1000s of mortgage deals from a range of lenders, including well known high street providers. Tailored Embrace Financial Services will listen to your needs and circumstances and recommend the best products for you. Safe Advisers will conduct secure video or telephone appointments so you can get expert advice from the comfort and safety of your home. Communication They provide excellent communication and will stay in touch every step of the way. All documents can be shared safely and quickly electronically. Book a mortgage appointment Appointment Checklist Unsure of what to bring to your mortgage appointment? Why not use our helpful checklist. Find out more Mortgages available from a wide range of well known providers What customers say about Embrace Financial Services Trustpilot Mortgage types Fixed rate mortgage Fixed rate mortgages are fixed for a specified number of years, so you know what your interest payments will be over that period. Following this period, the rate will usually revert to the lender's standard variable rate. Tracker mortgage This is a variable rate where the interest rate is a set amount above, below or equal to the Bank of England or some other base rate and so always "tracks" changes in that rate. Standard variable rate mortgage With this type of mortgage your payments will go up or down when the lender's mortgage rate changes. Most standard variable rates tend to move in line with the Bank of England base rate. Discounted rate mortgage A discounted rate gives you a set 'discount' off the lender's standard variable rate (SVR) for a specified period. For instance, if the discount was 1%, you will be charged 1% below the SVR for the period of the discount. Offset mortgage This is a flexible mortgage linked to your savings or current account. With this type of mortgage, you are only charged interest on the net amount you owe the lender, after offsetting any savings or current account balances against the amount of your mortgage. Interest only mortgage An interest-only mortgage allows you to pay just the interest charged on the loan each month. You don’t have to repay the amount you’ve borrowed (sometimes known as the capital) until the end of the term. Help to Buy: Equity Loan The Help to Buy: Equity Loan scheme closed to new applications on 31st October 2022. YOUR PROPERTY MAY BE REPOSSESSED IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON YOUR MORTGAGE. Embrace Financial Services usually charges a fee for mortgage advice. The amount of the fee will depend upon your circumstances and will be discussed and agreed with you at the earliest opportunity. * Treating Customers Fairly survey 2022. Embrace Financial Services Ltd. is an Appointed Representative of PRIMIS Mortgage Network, a trading name of First Complete Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Embrace Financial Services Ltd, registered in England and Wales at Second Floor, The Forum, Barnfield Road, Southernhay, Exeter EX1 1QR. (06447316). Most Buy-to-Let Mortgages are not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. The guidance contained within this website is subject to the UK regulatory regime and is therefore primarily targeted at consumers based in the UK. Book a valuation Contact your local branch My Move account Buy Find Property For Sale Land & New Homes Buying Calculators Rent Find Property To Rent Permitted payments Report a repair Sell Sell your property with us Book a property valuation Get an instant valuation Landlords Landlord services Service options & Fees Guides for landlords Services Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Helpful Links Careers Branches Privacy Notice Legal Information Accessibility Cookie Policy VAT Complaints Procedure Client Money Protection Anti Money Laundering information xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? JNP is a trading name, independently owned and operated under licence from LSLi Limited by AIG (KH) Ltd (company number 14772222), registered in England at 5 Brooklands Place, Brooklands Road, Sale, Cheshire, England, M33 3SD. Also trading as Fine & Country. We may refer you to recommended providers of ancillary services such as Conveyancing, Financial Services, Insurance and Surveying. We may receive a commission payment fee or other benefit (known as a referral fee) for recommending their services. You are not under any obligation to use the services of the recommended provider. The ancillary service provider may be an associated company of JNP.