Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 24 1 24 1 Matheran, 27-29 Sherbrooke Avenue, Glasgow, G41 See map Offers Over £2,600,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 24/08/2022 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×7 BATHROOMS ×7 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features 7 magnificent bedroom suites all with en suite facilities Stunning entrance hall with vaulted ceilings and minstrels' gallery 7 generously proportioned reception rooms High specification home operating systems Fully enclosed private gardens with state of the art security system About 0.86 acres in all EPC Rating = D Property description Spectacular 7 bedroom Baronial mansion house situated in the highly desirable 'Avenues' on Glasgow’s Southside. Description Matheran is a B Listed Scots Baronial house, the likes of which has never previously been marketed in the city of Glasgow . Built of striking red sandstone, synonymous with the much desired 'Avenues' area of the Southside, this property must be one of the most notable houses in the city. Formerly split into multiple dwellings, the current owners have lovingly restored this Victorian masterpiece, which now stands at close to 10,000 sq ft, into a single extraordinary home spanning over three floors of luxury living. On entering through the large stone gate piers the stature and quality of this property are immediately apparent. The terrazzo tiled entrance vestibule open through a magnificent front door and the eyes are immediately drawn to the vast reception hall. Rich wood panelling, much of which is original to the house, vaulted ceilings and splendid open fireplace along with the spectacular stained glass windows, give a flavour of what is to come. The stunning drawing room with double doors opening to the dining room and in turn again to the kitchen creates the perfect run of entertaining space. Again, a blend of textures and colours from floor to wall with bay windows, turrets, wooden flooring in places and beautiful architraves with clever lighting create a truly magical atmosphere. Similarly, the incredible home office with bespoke cabinetry and matching desk would encourage even the most hesitant worker to retire to what is a very serene and appealing room. For the keen cook, there is a well equipped contemporary kitchen with wraparound kitchen units and adjoining coffee bar, all with a Silestone worksurface and fitted with Miele oven and induction hob, wine fridge, and integrated twin combination ovens and barista-style coffee machine. This spacious central hub remains perfectly in scale with the grand proportions of the house, with the modern kitchen providing a stylish counterpoint to the exposed oak beams and period fireplace. There is ample space for informal dining lit by full height oak framed windows. The lounge areas would once have served as the billiards room and still display ecclesiastical arches, beautiful wood panelling and an inglenook viewing platform and vaulted ceilings. This area now forms a spacious relaxed family room as well as further entertaining space. Reinforcing the themes of luxury and relaxation, there is a superb wine cellar, well appointed gym with additional changing facilities and a sauna. The bedroom accommodation continues the impressive attention to detail and the principal bedroom suite boasts twin dressing rooms, all kitted out with bespoke oak cabinetry and an enviable bathroom with Porcelanosa sanitaryware. All five bedrooms off the main landing have exceptional proportions, bright and leafy outlooks as well as distinctive individual en suite bathrooms with a mixture of modern egg shaped baths or rainfall shower fittings, as well as traditional roll top baths, giving each room its own unique identity. Within the property and as part of the conversion, there are two further bedroom suite accessed from the mezzanine snug that is situated adjacent to the kitchen. This area also has its own kitchen, living room/cinema room and access to a private garden. Gardens and Grounds Surrounding Matheran is an equally glorious garden. 0.86 acres of grounds are enclosed within the original stone walls providing both privacy and protection. A sweeping driveway leads up to the house and around a picturesque turning circle to a parking bay and continues to the double garage beyond. Manicured lawns, mature trees, colourful rhododendrons and a variety of herbaceous borders flank the driveway adding colour and depth to the gardens. Countless beauty spots and sun traps can be found within the grounds, each offering a tranquil haven rarely found in such an urban location. Location Pollokshields has evolved over the last 150 years as one of the finest suburbs in the city of Glasgow. Its development was promoted by the original landowners, the Maxwells of Nether Pollok, who had been resident in Pollok House since the 18th century. Association with the area goes back to 1270 and their earliest extant residence, Haggs Castle, dates from 1585. Sherbrooke Avenue is conveniently positioned within half a mile of one of Glasgow’s finest parks: Pollok Park is internationally famous and includes the renowned Burrell Collection, Pollok House, rhododendron walks, numerous sporting facilities and Haggs Castle Golf Course. Pollokshields provides local state primary and secondary schooling with private education available nearby and throughout Glasgow. The immediate area also provides additional notable attractions including Maxwell Park with its lovingly tended wildlife pond, Bellahouston Park, which includes a ski centre, the House for an Art Lover which was designed by Charles Rennie Macintosh, Haggs Castle Golf Course, Clydesdale Cricket Club and Titwood Tennis Club. Dumbreck and Maxwell Park railway station provides regular travel to Glasgow Central station within approximately 7 minutes. The nearby M77 also provides high speed commuter links to the city centre and Ayrshire and Edinburgh. Square Footage: 9,820 sq ft Additional Info Council Tax - Band H Brochures Web Details Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Rating Graph EPC Rating Graph Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Matheran, 27-29 Sherbrooke Avenue, Glasgow, G41 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Dumbreck Station 0.3 miles Maxwell Park Station 0.4 miles Crossmyloof Station 0.7 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Savills, Glasgow 163 West George Street, Glasgow, G2 2JJ Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise span the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa, and the Middle East. Our scale gives us wide-ranging specialist and local knowledge, and we take pride in providing best-in-class advice as we help individuals, businesses and institutions make better property decisions. Outstanding property We have been advising on Read more More properties from this agent Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Savills, Glasgow 163 West George Street, Glasgow, G2 2JJ More properties from this agent Call agent : 0141 673 1232 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference GLS150132. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Savills, Glasgow . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0141 673 1232 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho