Search Report a repair Contact us My Move Account Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Sell Property valuation Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Local Sold House Prices Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Looking to move? Get your property valuation Get your conveyancing solicitor Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations How much can I afford? - use our budget planner and find out Something need fixing - Report a repair Landlords Rental valuation Book an accurate lettings valuation Get an instant online valuation Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations Looking to let? Get your property valuation Get your property managed New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Mortgages Mortgage Services Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Book your mortgage appointment About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection Branches Sales Amersham Hazlemere and Great Missenden High Wycombe Princes Risborough Land & New Homes Lettings Amersham High Wycombe Princes Risborough Fine & Country Fine & Country South Buckinghamshire Other departments Sales Progression Property Management JNP Handyman Services Head Office xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? My Move xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Branches xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Report a repair - Fixflo Branches Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Sell Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Local Sold House Prices Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Existing tenants Report a maintenance issue What to do in an emergency Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations Landlords Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Mortgages Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Careers About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection You're in control We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. To learn more about how we use cookies, please see our Cookie Policy . You can manage your preferences now on this banner, or via your browser at anytime. Functional Active Inactive Analytical Active Inactive Non-essential Active Inactive Manage Accept Home Landlords We can take care of your Buy to Let investment Let us guide you through the lettings process and take away the hassle and legislation for you. Book an appointment Letting your property with JNP At JNP we are proud of the wealth, knowledge and experience we can offer to any landlord thinking of letting a property. Whatever your reason for becoming a landlord, whether an investment or a source of income, you've inherited a property and want to let it out, or you're moving in with a partner or relocating for a short term but don't want to sell your property, we can help. Our experienced lettings team are based in High Wycombe and Prices Risborough, we also cover lettings in Hazlemere, Prestwood, Stockenchurch and all of the surrounding areas. What would you like to do? View benefits of letting with JNP View service option and fees Get your lettings valuation Looking to invest? Investing in property can be exciting and profitable when done well. JNP have all the skills and experience to help you get the most from investing in property and we want to help. Find out more Letting with JNP Quality tenants and relevant property service levels To ensure we get the best tenant into your property, we undertake strict pre applicant registration and referencing of all tenants which includes credit checks, employment and previous landlord references. This means we only offer quality tenants to you and your property and limit any voids. Our three structured service levels meet most landlord’s needs, but are able to tailor for specific requirements. These are all provided within a competitive fee structure. Award winning lettings experience We have a dedicated property management team that are focussed on your properties and understand your needs. Our specialist teams can provide a market appraisal on your property and help you with all aspects of lettings including pricing advice, advice on how best to decorate or furnish your property as well as trends in the local market place. We are experts in the lettings process, managing the preparation of tenancy agreements and all pre tenancy paperwork that is required by law to be served to a tenant. Excellent marketing Once you are ready to let your property, we prepare your property details and it goes live on our website, Rightmove and Zoopla with full specifications, floor plans and photographs. We then market to our database of potential tenants via email, telephone and text. We will provide you with a regular email or written report on all marketing activity, including updates on every viewing. Property management and maintenance We have an in house property management team with dedicated property managers and can pick up any minor maintenance to your property before it becomes a major issue. Regular property visits allow us to assess how your property is being treated, look out for signs of wear and tear and anything that might causes issues in the future. Over the years we have built up a valuable list of reliable, accredited and reputable contractors which are all referenced and vetted by us. The team are able to provide redecoration, general maintenance, property clearance and other property related handyman services. Contact the team Online repairs and maintenance management Our fully managed service includes access to Fixflo, an industry leading online reporting tool. Fixflo can accept tenant repair requests in more than 40 languages, 24 hours a day. With easy to follow guidance it can help tenants to fix smaller issues themselves. So things such as blown light bulbs and fuses are dealt with quickly, tenants know what they are responsible for and these issues don't escalate into costly property repairs. With the option to add an image to their request a more detailed report is made, ensuring faster fixes. Through Fixflo's digital system all records of communication are organised into one place for each property. Making it easy to track and audit all repairs and maintenance. Useful information for landlords Landlords service options & fees View our service options and fees Guides for landlords Useful guides for first time and experienced landlords Landlord financial services Helpful information about mortgages and insurance View service option and fees Guides for landlords Financial services for landlords It all starts with a valuation Find out the value of your property Postcode * How many bedrooms? * 1 bedroom 2 bedroom 3 bedroom 4 bedroom 5+ bedroom Next step Book a valuation Contact your local branch My Move account Buy Find Property For Sale Land & New Homes Buying Calculators Rent Find Property To Rent Permitted payments Report a repair Sell Sell your property with us Book a property valuation Get an instant valuation Landlords Landlord services Service options & Fees Guides for landlords Services Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Helpful Links Careers Branches Privacy Notice Legal Information Accessibility Cookie Policy VAT Complaints Procedure Client Money Protection Anti Money Laundering information xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? JNP is a trading name, independently owned and operated under licence from LSLi Limited by AIG (KH) Ltd (company number 14772222), registered in England at 5 Brooklands Place, Brooklands Road, Sale, Cheshire, England, M33 3SD. Also trading as Fine & Country. We may refer you to recommended providers of ancillary services such as Conveyancing, Financial Services, Insurance and Surveying. We may receive a commission payment fee or other benefit (known as a referral fee) for recommending their services. You are not under any obligation to use the services of the recommended provider. The ancillary service provider may be an associated company of JNP.