Skip to main content Open menu About Us Open link menu About Us Our Strategy Our Technology Our Markets Board of Directors Our History Investor Relations Open link menu Investor Relations Investment Case Results, Reports and Presentations Share Price Analysis Financial Calendar Regulatory News Email alerts Shareholder information AGM General Meetings Dividends Our Responsibility Open link menu Our Responsibility Community Environment People Gender Pay Gap Corporate Governance Careers Contact Search Search Search Search Looking for... Please fill out this field Back Close menu Looking for... Please fill out this field Close London’s leading estate agent Here to deliver the results our customers need through the knowledge and expertise of our people, our reach across London and best in class technology. ABOUT US London’s leading estate agent Why invest in Foxtons? Foxtons is a well invested business with clear strategy for growth and delivery of shareholder value READ MORE Why invest in Foxtons? Left / Right Founded in 1981, Foxtons started as a two-person estate agency in Notting Hill and established itself as an iconic brand. Today, Foxtons provides a range of residential property services across Lettings, Sales, and Financial Services businesses, operating across a network of over 60 interconnected branches. Foxtons is London’s largest lettings agent, with a portfolio of over 27,500 tenancies, contributing around two thirds of Group revenue which is non-cyclical and recurring in nature. Investors We continue to invest in our reach, people and technology to further strengthen our competitive advantage and enable us to maintain a market-leading position and deliver sustainable value for our shareholders. Find out more Regulatory News 11 May 2023 Transaction in Own Shares 10 May 2023 Transaction in Own Shares 10 May 2023 Result of AGM: Correction Regulatory news Share price SHARE PRICE ANALYSIS Latest Reports 20 April 2023 Q1 2023 Trading Update 30 March 2023 Annual Report and accounts 2022 ESEF version 30 March 2023 Annual Report and accounts 2022 Read more Sign up SIGN UP FOR EMAIL ALERTS Sign up Strategy Our refocused strategic priorities will rebuild Foxtons’ DNA, returning the business to its position as London’s go-to estate agent and delivering stakeholder value. Our Strategy Purpose Our purpose is to get the right deal done for London’s property owners. We want to deliver value for our customers, provide opportunities and progression for our staff, ensure we are valued members of the communities in which we operate, and deliver sustainable shareholder returns. Our Purpose Close popup Left Right Quick Links Home About Us Our Strategy Investor Contact Us Sign up for alerts Latest updates and reports Sign up Annual report 2022 Download Annual Report here Stay in touch Keep up to date on social media Footer © Foxtons Estate Agents Accessibility Terms & Conditions & Privacy Policy Sitemap Cookie Policy Cookie Setting Health and Safety Statement of Intent Copyright © 2023 Footer 1 Modern Slavery Delivered by Investis Digital