Skip to Main Content Advertisement Journals Books Search Menu Menu Navbar Search Filter Journal of American History This issue OAH Journals United States History Books Journals Oxford Academic Mobile Enter search term Search Issues Podcasts Submit Author Guidelines Open Access Options Purchase Alerts About About Journal of American History About the Organization of American Historians Editorial Board Advertising and Corporate Services Self-Archiving Policy Dispatch Dates Contact Us Journals on Oxford Academic Books on Oxford Academic OAH Journals Issues Podcasts Submit Author Guidelines Open Access Options Purchase Alerts About About Journal of American History About the Organization of American Historians Editorial Board Advertising and Corporate Services Self-Archiving Policy Dispatch Dates Contact Us Close Navbar Search Filter Journal of American History This issue OAH Journals United States History Books Journals Oxford Academic Enter search term Search Advanced Search Search Menu Article Navigation Close mobile search navigation Article Navigation Volume 93 Issue 4 March 2007 < Previous Next > Article Navigation Article Navigation Journal Article Conjure in African American Society Get access Conjure in African American Society . By Anderson Jeffrey E. . ( Baton Rouge : Louisiana State University Press , 2005 . xvi , 230 pp. $39.95, isbn 0-8071-3092-3.) Ina Fandrich Ina Fandrich Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois Search for other works by this author on: Oxford Academic Google Scholar Journal of American History , Volume 93, Issue 4, March 2007, Page 1249, https://doi.org/10.2307/25094666 Published: 01 March 2007 Views Article contents Figures & tables Video Audio Supplementary Data Cite Cite Ina Fandrich, Conjure in African American Society, Journal of American History , Volume 93, Issue 4, March 2007, Page 1249, https://doi.org/10.2307/25094666 Select Format Select format .ris (Mendeley, Papers, Zotero) .enw (EndNote) .bibtex (BibTex) .txt (Medlars, RefWorks) Download citation Close Permissions Icon Permissions Share Icon Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Navbar Search Filter Journal of American History This issue OAH Journals United States History Books Journals Oxford Academic Mobile Enter search term Search Close Navbar Search Filter Journal of American History This issue OAH Journals United States History Books Journals Oxford Academic Enter search term Search Advanced Search Search Menu Extract Conjure, though often overlooked or misunderstood, has always been a core element of African American culture. Also known as “rootwork,” or “hoodoo,” conjure refers to widespread magical practices commonly found among African Americans. Conjurers can be male or female and have often risen to remarkable positions of social influence and power. They were feared and held in high esteem by their contemporaries, both black and white. While there is a wealth of “how to” conjure books with elaborate recipes for overcoming adversities in life, scholarly works on the topic have been relatively scarce. Loaded with racial stereotypes and mired in a gray zone between ridicule and fear, the subject of conjure had remained an embarrassing one unworthy of serious academic scrutiny. That outlook has changed in recent years. Jeffrey E. Anderson's book Conjure in African American Society is an example of this newly emerging scholarship, offering an interesting, yet not unproblematic, approach to this topic. Issue Section: Book Reviews You do not currently have access to this article. Download all slides Sign in Get help with access Organization of American Historians members Sign in through society site Personal account Sign in with email/username & password Get email alerts Save searches Purchase content Activate purchases and trials Sign in Register Institutional access Sign in through your institution Sign in with a library card Sign in with username / password Recommend to your librarian Institutional account management Sign in as administrator Get help with access Institutional access Access to content on Oxford Academic is often provided through institutional subscriptions and purchases. If you are a member of an institution with an active account, you may be able to access content in one of the following ways: IP based access Typically, access is provided across an institutional network to a range of IP addresses. This authentication occurs automatically, and it is not possible to sign out of an IP authenticated account. Sign in through your institution Choose this option to get remote access when outside your institution. Shibboleth / Open Athens technology is used to provide single sign-on between your institution’s website and Oxford Academic. Click Sign in through your institution. Select your institution from the list provided, which will take you to your institution's website to sign in. When on the institution site, please use the credentials provided by your institution. Do not use an Oxford Academic personal account. Following successful sign in, you will be returned to Oxford Academic. If your institution is not listed or you cannot sign in to your institution’s website, please contact your librarian or administrator. Sign in with a library card Enter your library card number to sign in. If you cannot sign in, please contact your librarian. Society Members Society member access to a journal is achieved in one of the following ways: Sign in through society site Many societies offer single sign-on between the society website and Oxford Academic. If you see ‘Sign in through society site’ in the sign in pane within a journal: Click Sign in through society site. When on the society site, please use the credentials provided by that society. Do not use an Oxford Academic personal account. Following successful sign in, you will be returned to Oxford Academic. If you do not have a society account or have forgotten your username or password, please contact your society. Sign in using a personal account Some societies use Oxford Academic personal accounts to provide access to their members. See below. Personal account A personal account can be used to get email alerts, save searches, purchase content, and activate subscriptions. Some societies use Oxford Academic personal accounts to provide access to their members. Viewing your signed in accounts Click the account icon in the top right to: View your signed in personal account and access account management features. View the institutional accounts that are providing access. Signed in but can't access content Oxford Academic is home to a wide variety of products. The institutional subscription may not cover the content that you are trying to access. If you believe you should have access to that content, please contact your librarian. Institutional account management For librarians and administrators, your personal account also provides access to institutional account management. Here you will find options to view and activate subscriptions, manage institutional settings and access options, access usage statistics, and more. Close access help modal Purchase Subscription prices and ordering for this journal Purchasing options for books and journals across Oxford Academic Short-term Access To purchase short-term access, please sign in to your personal account above. Don't already have a personal account? Register Conjure in African American Society - 24 Hours access EUR €48.00 GBP £42.00 USD $52.00 EUR €48.00 GBP £42.00 USD $52.00 Rental This article is also available for rental through DeepDyve. Advertisement Citations Views 447 Altmetric More metrics information × Email alerts Article activity alert Advance article alerts New issue alert Receive exclusive offers and updates from Oxford Academic Citing articles via Google Scholar Latest Most Read Most Cited Wreathed in Worry, Pining for Protection: Latino Forestry Workers and Historical Traumas in Maine Tennis: A History from American Amateurs to Global Professionals Fresh Kills: A History of Consuming and Discarding in New York City Announcements Ireland and America: Empire, Revolution, and Sovereignty More from Oxford Academic Arts and Humanities History Regional and National History United States History Books Journals Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement About Journal of American History Editorial Board Author Guidelines Contact Us Process - a blog for american history Facebook Twitter YouTube Purchase Recommend to your Library Advertising and Corporate Services Online ISSN 1945-2314 Print ISSN 0021-8723 Copyright © 2023 Organization of American Historians About Oxford Academic Publish journals with us University press partners What we publish New features Authoring Open access Purchasing Institutional account management Rights and permissions Get help with access Accessibility Contact us Advertising Media enquiries Oxford University Press News Oxford Languages University of Oxford Oxford University Press is a department of the University of Oxford. It furthers the University's objective of excellence in research, scholarship, and education by publishing worldwide Copyright © 2023 Oxford University Press Cookie settings Cookie policy Privacy policy Legal notice Close Close This Feature Is Available To Subscribers Only Sign In or Create an Account Close This PDF is available to Subscribers Only View Article Abstract & Purchase Options For full access to this pdf, sign in to an existing account, or purchase an annual subscription. Close