Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 29 1 29 1 NEW HOME Mearns Road, Newton Mearns, Glasgow, G77 5HN See map £1,137,995 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. other properties at Sandringham Gate Other properties available Added on 23/04/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×5 TENURE Ask developer Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 2 Key features Exclusive development of 12 five-bedroom luxury detached villas Underfloor Heating to Bathroom & En Suites Excellent Storage Double Aspect Lounge Magnificent Double Height Window Extending to First Floor Impeccably designed Nolte Kitchens with Neff Appliances Oak & Glass Feature Staircase with Tread Lighting Double Integral Garage The Final Spence - Move this Summer Corner Plot Property description Sandringham Gate is our exclusive development of 12 five-bedroom luxury detached villas in the highly sought after Broom Road area of Newton Mearns. It offers luxurious new homes with flowing living spaces and fabulous additional features such as double-height windows, sunrooms and balconies, as well as games and fitness rooms. Plot 11, THE SPENCE is a stunning five-bedroom villa designed to offer truly luxurious living accommodation. The generous double aspect lounge features a corner window and provides access to the spacious hall through double doors. The family room to the rear has a single sliding panel door through to the dining room/kitchen. The high-specification kitchen includes fully integrated appliances including oven, induction hob, fridge-freezer and dishwasher. The dining area features a magnificent double-height window, which extends to the mezzanine on the first floor allowing in plenty of light when enjoying a family meal or entertaining. There is also access, via a sliding glass door, to the garden from the dining area. Beyond the kitchen is a separate utility room and access to the integrated garage. A cloakroom and plenty of storage complete the ground floor. The main bedroom features a walk-in dressing room and ensuite with a separate bath and shower enclosure. Bedrooms two, three and four have fitted wardrobes, and bedrooms two and three also feature ensuite shower rooms. Bedroom five/study, overlooking the main front entrance, also has a striking corner window. A family bathroom with separate bath and shower and two additional first-floor storage cupboards complete this majestic home. Images and CGI's are indicative of style and specification, variations may occur. Please contact our sales consultant for more information. Read more Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask developer Sandringham Gate About this community: Five-bedroom luxury detached villas Luxurious new homes Enjoy tranquil surroundings Quiet new cul-de-sac View brochure Mearns Road, Newton Mearns, Glasgow, G77 5HN Approximate location Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Whitecraigs Station 0.8 miles Williamwood Station 1.3 miles Patterton Station 1.4 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the development Springfield M & M Homes Mearns Road, Newton Mearns, Glasgow, G77 5HN Sandringham Gate Five-bedroom luxury detached villas Luxurious new homes Enjoy tranquil surroundings Quiet new cul-de-sac Please contact Mactaggart & Mickel for more information Subject to availability Mactaggart & Mickel are award-winning and have been building new homes since 1925. We have been awarded a 5-Star rating for Customer Satisfaction from the Home Builders Federation (HBF) every year since gaining eligibility in 2013 and take pride in our reputation for exceptional quality and service. Our portfolio of stunning new home designs ranges from two-bedroom apartments to five-bedroom luxury family homes, all with exquisite finish throughout and fitted with high-quality products. Read more More properties from this developer Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Springfield M & M Homes Mearns Road, Newton Mearns, Glasgow, G77 5HN More properties from this developer Call developer : 07773 180132 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference Spence_plot11JS. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Springfield M & M Homes . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email developer Call developer Call developer : 07773 180132 Email developer Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho