My Foxtons Menu Buy Sell Rent Landlords Auctions House prices Inspiration About Contact Valuation Our services Home Landlords London's Letting Agent You are not logged in. Log in / Register London's Number One Lettings Agency Get Rental Valuation Get Valuation Instruct Us We get it done We let thousands of properties every month. Popular for good reason We have more rental stock than any other London agent. Our database works for you Over 50,000 renters register with Foxtons monthly. Property Management Expert maintenance and compliance to protect your asset. Learn more Short Lets Monetise the void period with a flexible short-term rental. Learn more Rent Protection Protect yout income, should the unexpected happen Learn more My Foxtons Essential tools for easy management of your asset. Learn more Lettings Market Report Tap into the latest data and insight on London lettings. Learn more Rental Yields Calculator See how valuable a property is as a buy-to-let investment. Learn more Landlord Advice Stay on top of regulations with our practical guides. Learn more Buy To Let Mortgage Bespoke investment advice and access to exclusive rates. Learn more Get Valuation Get Rental Valuation Instruct Us The full picture, whenever you need it Get the best out of your investment in one fell swipe. Real-time viewing updates Accept and reject offers online Order and upload compliance documents Instant and accurate rent notifications Online deposit resolution tracking London's Number One Lettings Agency With our trained Negotiators working together across 60+ offices, over 50,000 new renters registering monthly and industry-leading technology to distribute your property advert, we will find you the right tenant, right when you need them. But we're not just here to minimise your void period. We provide long-term, comprehensive support for every aspect of your tenancy. You don't even need to list with Foxtons to use our exceptional Property Management services. Contact Managed Long Let Short Let Long Let 6 Months + 0 - 6 Months 6 Months + Full marketing Qualified tenants Referencing Identity checks Right to rent checks Pre-tenancy safety checks Compliance advice Online issue tracker My Foxtons Dedicated property manager 24 hour access to contractors Keyholding service Property inspections Move in management Deposit negotiations Credit control Asset management advice Maintenance tracker How much can landlords charge for professional end-of-tenancy cleaning? 31st May 2023 Renters Reform Bill: here's what Landlords need to know 18th May 2023 Who is your next tenant? 28th April 2023 Top tax tips for Landlords 28th March 2023 Purchasing a UK buy to let property: stamp duty implications 1st March 2023 The lettings market is starting to climb 20th February 2023 London is, officially, the best city in the world 15th February 2023 Renting takes centre stage 13th February 2023 Competition in the Capital: new data from our Lettings Market Report 19th January 2023 Why self-service tools are essential for today’s landlord 3rd January 2023 Stadium Property Impact 22nd December 2022 2022 roundup: highlights from our articles 21st December 2022 Premium marketing plan. As standard. We register 50,000 tenants each month, and we proactively market your property to them. Plus… Cutting-edge digital marketing, from Facebook to Google Advertised on the most visited estate agency website [Source] Premium listing on Rightmove & Zoopla Contact Finding tenants Where will my property be advertised? With Foxtons you get a premium marketing plan. As standard. We proactively market your property to our database of 18,750 qualified tenants. Plus... Cutting-edge digital marketing, from Facebook to Google Advertised on the most visited estate agency website [Source] Premium listing on Rightmove & Zoopla See what else is included Are there any additional marketing costs? No. Foxtons includes all marketing expenses, including listing your property on our website, Rightmove, Zoopla, as well as printed brochures and direct email alerts. We'll even upgrade your Rightmove listing to appear in rotation at the very top of the search results. Who will conduct viewings? Foxtons ensures all viewings to your property are accompanied by one of our highly-trained Property Negotiators, even in the evening and on Saturdays. Do I need to be present for viewings? No. Because renters often feel more relaxed when the owner or tenants are not present, Foxtons will ask you to supply any access codes and keys required to enter your property so we can conduct viewings independently. Compliance & regulations What are my responsibilities as a landlord? Making sure your property adheres to all relevant legislation is becoming increasingly more challenging for London landlords. Regulation and licensing differs significantly across London boroughs and keeping on top can be difficult. There have been over 150 regulation changes for landlords over the past five years. Visit our compliance and regulations section for a breakdown of the main responsibilities. Do I need an EPC? It is a legal requirement for landlords to have a valid EPC ( Energy Performance Certificate ) before their property is let. An EPC measures the energy efficiency of a property using a scale of A-G and is valid for 10 years. We can arrange an EPC for you . How can I protect myself from property fraud? There are a couple of very simple measures which are recommended by both the Land Registry and Action Fraud that you can take to safeguard your property. More about Property Fraud. Rent How long does it take to receive my rent? We transfer rent the same day we receive it. Throughout the tenancy you can manage all your finances though My Foxtons . When we collect the rent on your behalf, not only will we transfer it to you on the same day, but we'll send you an alert as soon as the rent lands in your account. What happens if my tenants don't pay the rent? We conduct thorough reference and affordability checks in order to provide qualified tenants. We successfully collect 98% of all rents on behalf of our managed landlords. Our dedicated credit control team is highly experienced in prompt rent collection whilst maintaining a proactive relationship with tenants. Can I increase the rent? At the end of the tenancy our renewals department will help you work out what the best course of action is for you. Should you choose to renew the contract, we'll help negotiate any rent increases with your tenants and ensure that both you and your existing tenants are happy. Our services Find tenants Property Management Short lets Rental valuation Landlord advice Help & Guides Compliance Licensing & HMOs EPCs Right to Rent Landlord tools My Foxtons for landlords Rental yield calculator Buy-to-Let mortgages We value your privacy We use necessary cookies to make our website work and we'd like to use other cookies to give you the most relevant experience. Click “Accept all” to agree to all cookies, or for more options click on “Change Settings”. For more information see our cookie policy Accept All Change Settings Privacy and Cookies Policy Introduction Strictly necessary Functionality cookies Performance cookies Performance cookies Performance cookies let us collect information about how the website is used. For example, we may record what pages are visited most. This data allows us to see where we could optimise the website and make it more efficient. Foxtons: tbp, twp2, tws. tco, referrer Foxtons uses performance cookies to help understand how our visitors use the website and how we can improve our website. We also host the following third-party solutions, which may set the following cookies: Google Analytics: _ga, _gat, _gat_UA-<TOKEN>, utmx, utmxx Google Analytics cookies are used to distinguish users and sessions and gather usage data related to your visit to our website so we can improve our website. AddThis: _atssc, _atuvc, _atuvs, _ Some pages may have the AddThis social plugin to allow you to share pages to your social network and for Foxtons to view reports on which pages were shared and how. Crazyegg: _ceir, is_returning, _CEFT, _ceg.s, _ceg.u, s, u, cer.s, cer.v Crazyegg is a third-party optimisation solution which helps us to test, analyse and improve each user's experience on the website based on their online behaviour. Functionality cookies Functionality cookies allow the website to remember settings such as the screen size, which lets us serve the right content without overloading any network or device capacity. mortgage - Stores your mortgage settings for use across the website. recent - Stores information of the last pages you have viewed. screen - Stores the screen size of the device that you are viewing our website on. This allows us to serve the right content for the device you are using without overloading your network and preserving best layout. Strictly necessary cookies Strictly necessary cookies allow you to log into your account and view account details without a need to log in again every time you navigate to subsequent page. These cannot be disabled. foxtons_session - Stores information about whether you are logged in into your account or not. visit_secure_token2 (session) - Stores information necessary to access your account. cookie_policy_displayed - Stores information about the cookie policy declaration. search - Stores your preferences as to how you prefer your results to be displayed i.e display 10 properties per page and price filter ‘from highest to lowest'. is_logged_in - Recognize when a user is logged in, to allow access to restricted areas of the site. What are cookies? To make your experience visiting the Foxtons website as simple and convenient as possible we place small data files known as "cookies" on your computer. This practice is used by many websites. Cookies are created when your browser loads the website. The website sends information to the browser which then creates a text file. Cookies are stored on your device for various periods of time, from as short time as the duration of your browsing session to several months. Every time you come back to the website, the browser retrieves and sends cookies to the server, which helps to improve your experience of the website by: Remembering settings, so you don't have to re-enter them every time you visit Remembering your last properties and searches, helping you to keep on top of new listings Measuring use of the website so that we can see where we can improve You can manage and/or delete these small files from your device, but please be aware that this will limit the functionality that we are able to offer to you. Allow all cookies Save preferences Find your next home Search Unlock the true value of your home Get a valuation Lettings & Property Management New to Foxtons? Instruct us Existing customers Login to My Foxtons Explore news articles, area guides and interior design trends Setting the standard in estate agency We combine best-in-class people and technology to set the standard for service in estate agency Find your nearest office Find your nearest office Our Services Setting the standard in estate agency First time buyers How much can I borrow? Guide to buying Moving home How much is my home worth? Register with Foxtons Find a property New Homes availability Asia Pacific Help for buyers Advantages of choosing Foxtons Mortgages Conveyancing Stamp Duty calculator Why buy a new build? Property Surveys and Lease Extensions Our services Sell your home Foxtons Private Office How much is your home worth? Book a valuation appointment Help Help & Guides Contact us Rental searches Lettings Short lets Corporate relocation Student accommodation Tenant advice Guide to renting Right to Rent Why use Foxtons? Area guides Your tenancy Register with Foxtons My tenancy in My Foxtons Fees & terms Tenant support Our services Find tenants Property Management Specialist services Short lets Help being a landlord Help & Guides Buy to Let Mortgages Property inspiration Blog Interior Design Local life Area guides Schools Let's get social Facebook Twitter Instagram Our company About us Our history Investor Relations Careers Inside Foxtons News from Foxtons Foxtons' Minis Testimonials Social Media Community Community Environment People Our services Register to find a new home Valuation New Homes Corporate Relocations Customer services Opening hours Existing Lettings Feedback Complaints Internal enquiries Press Reports Recruitment Investor Relations All other enquiries Buying and Selling Buying New Homes Selling Landlords and Renting Landlords Property Management Renters Short lets Specialist Services B2R & Institutional PRS Foxtons Private Office Corporate relocation Asia Pacific About Foxtons About Foxtons Estate Agent Sales jobs in London Property Management in London Tenancy FAQs Mobile apps Branch Finder Our estate agencies Central London estate agents East London estate agents North London estate agents South London estate agents Surrey estate agents West London estate agents Popular searches London property for sale London lettings London short lets New Homes in London Property intelligence Area guides House price reports Rental reports Home valuation service © Foxtons Estate Agents Investors Terms and Conditions & Privacy Policy Cookies Policy Sitemap