Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 38 1 38 1 Methven Road, Whitecraigs, Glasgow, East Renfrewshire See map Offers Over £950,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 08/06/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×4 BATHROOMS ×5 TENURE Ask agent Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Property description A truly outstanding detached residence within an especially desirable Whitecraigs address. Windyridge is an exceptional family home enjoying a premier position on the corner of Methven Road and Elphinstone Road, two of the areas leafiest most coveted addresses and benefits from substantial and mature garden grounds. This traditionally built property provides a wealth of highly flexible accommodation extending to more than 4500 sqft with a pleasing selection of sizeable apartments retaining many period details. The accommodation is formed over two levels and comprises in its entirety; canopied entrance, broad reception hall with fitted storage and guest WC, impressive dual aspect lounge with bay window formation and feature fireplace and front facing formal dining room again with bay window. The centre piece of this sizeable property is the vast open plan living / dining/ kitchen space designed perfectly for modern family living. This stunning open plan space features a well-appointed kitchen with an extensive range of wall and floor mounted units and integrated appliances with French doors providing views of and access to the balcony finished with glass balustrade. There is ample space for dining tables and chairs with the room featuring decorative exposed beams and fibre optic lighting. The living area features a newly installed bio-fuel fire with beautiful surround. A large utility room leads to a small external courtyard. An inner hall provides access to the rear gardens, additional WC, integral garage and wonderful family room with attractive vaulted ceiling and four sets of French doors providing access to the garden grounds. The remaining ground floor accommodation includes a fabulous principal bedroom with fitted wardrobes, bay window, delightful en-suite bathroom and further newly installed wet room. The upper-level accommodation includes landing area with fitted storage, and three further generously sized bedrooms and family bathroom. The property has been extensively upgraded in recent years with fresh and tasteful decoration and quality carpets and floor coverings throughout. This includes most ground floor apartments which are finished in Amtico flooring, Carved Oak Basket Weave design with border and centre pieces. The bathroom features further Amtico flooring in Geo Oyster. The high specification also includes recently fitted wardrobes by Hammonds, double glazing and gas central heating. There are exceptional garden grounds which surround the property which incorporate an expansive block driveway with electric gates which provides ample off-street parking whilst leading the integral garage with remote control door. The gardens are enclosed to ensure a high degree of privacy with expansive terraced areas and lawn area with well-stocked flowerbeds and shrubbery. There is an incredible outdoor pavilion with vaulted ceiling, fireplace and glass balustrade providing a wonderful space from where to enjoy alfresco dining throughout the seasons. The property sits within the catchment area for some of Scotland’s highest attaining primary and secondary schools. Methven Road is within easy reach of the private Belmont House School and pick-up points for Glasgow’s private schools. The area also has a host of local amenities including banks, healthcare centres, libraries, supermarkets and is close to The Avenue shopping centre. Local sports and recreational facilities include Parklands Country Club, Cathcart, Williamwood and Whitecraigs Golf Clubs and several of private bowling, tennis and rugby clubs along with East Renfrewshire Council's own excellent sports and leisure facilities at Eastwood Toll. EPC D Council tax G Freehold EPC Rating: D Council Tax Band: G Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Rating Graph Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: G Methven Road, Whitecraigs, Glasgow, East Renfrewshire Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Whitecraigs Station 0.4 miles Williamwood Station 0.9 miles Patterton Station 1.2 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Rettie & Co, Newton Mearns 116 Ayr Road, Newton Mearns, Glasgow, G77 6EG Glasgow Southside's Local Property Experts One of four distinct teams throughout Glasgow, our Southside team are based out of both our Newton Mearns and Shawlands offices, enabling them to offer a bespoke and personal service throughout this vibrant part of the city. Our office is located on Ayr Road in the heart of Newton Mearns and we are perfectly placed to offer unrivalled local knowledge and connections, along with the warm, friendly service for which Rettie & Co. is famo Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Rettie & Co, Newton Mearns 116 Ayr Road, Newton Mearns, Glasgow, G77 6EG More properties from this agent Call agent : 0141 673 1320 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference GWS230340. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Rettie & Co, Newton Mearns . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0141 673 1320 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho