Express. Home of the Daily and Sunday Express. Discount codes Puzzles Horoscopes Express Rated Shop Paper Login Register Your Account Bookmarks Sign Out Uk Us 17 °C Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Find us on Snapchat Find us on Youtube Search HOME News Royal Showbiz & TV Sport Comment Finance Travel Entertainment Life & Style UK Politics Royal US World Science Weather Weird History Nature Sunday InYourArea Home News UK 'Impossible' question on Maths GCSE exam stumps 16-year-olds across the country GCSE students were left stumped by a maths question that even a university student admitted was tough. By Jon King 14:45, Sat, May 21, 2022 | UPDATED: 15:50, Sat, May 21, 2022 Link copied Bookmark Susanna Reid grills Nadhim Zahawi on school funding Pupils were left scratching their heads over the task to work out the area of a shaded part of some circles. University of Manchester maths student Harry Surplus described the challenge as a "tough one". Related articles Ambulances rush to store as 'people collapsing' Cost of living crisis leaves hard up British pensioners facing DEATH He tweeted: "A 2nd year BSc Maths students take on the last question of Edexcel GCSE Maths Higher Paper 1. "A tough one, even I had to spend some time looking where to start." Youngsters took to Twitter to share their experiences of the final task on the paper. Twitter user @Xenicz_ said: "The last question on the Edexcel GCSE higher paper 1 was absolutely ridiculous! A stock image of pupils sitting an exam (Image: PA) A 2nd year BSc Maths students take on the last question of Edexcel GCSE Maths Higher Paper 1. A tough one, even I had to spend some time looking where to start. How many marks was it worth anyone? #gcses2022 #gcsemaths #gcses #EdexcelMaths pic.twitter.com/zGLNTlgenh — Harry Surplus (@harrysurplus) May 20, 2022 "If anyone actually got that one right then you are a genius!" Fellow Twitter user @xfyz chimed in: "It was so bad O was tearing up for no reason when I got out." @mosesb318 added: "If a 2nd year Bsc Maths student is struggling with the question, how do they except us GCSE students to get it?" One Twitter user questioned whether the question was appropriate for GCSE students. READ MORE ABOUT BORIS JOHNSON AND SUE GRAY'S REPORT SUBSCRIBE Invalid email We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. More info Students sitting an exam (Image: PA) Youngsters at a protest in Westminster over the handling of A-level results during the pandemic (Image: PA) Related articles Meghan and Harry sent Netflix warning as Sussexes produce 'old news' Royal family 'open up their homes' to Ukrainian refugees @TwinsplusTwo tweeted: "And they wonder why kids are being put off Maths. No way is that GCSE." Another claimed the question was no harder than O-Level questions from the 1980s. @MulberryEllie said: "This was no more difficult than early 1980s O Level questions... Trouble is CSE's and then GCSE's have dumbed down the benchmark." Exam season started on Monday, May 16, and is set to last until June 28. DON'T MISS: Sainsbury's diesel announcement to impact every petrol station in UK [REVEALED] Nicola Sturgeon tests positive for Covid hours after Brexit talks [LATEST] Boris Johnson and Sue Gray held private meeting [REPORT] Political parties by Twitter following (Image: Express) Trending Students are sitting GCSE and A-Level papers for the first time in two years after Covid disrupted schooling across the country. Ahead of testing season, figures showed the number of counselling sessions for exam anxiety provided by charity Childline almost doubled in seven months. More than 200 sessions took place in March 2022, nearly double the number of sessions in September 2021. Childline staff delivered 1,734 counselling sessions to pupils worried about exam stress and revision in 2021-22, a 62 percent rise on the year before. Schools were closed and exams cancelled during the Covid pandemic. Image shows locked school gates (Image: PA) NSPCC figures from 2021-22 also revealed a two-month spike in exam-related stress during May and June last year. This reflected pupils going back to school in March and learning that full public exams would be cancelled for a second time because of the pandemic. Alex Gray from Childline said: "Our latest Childline stats on exam stress highlight the mounting concern felt by children and young people as they look to sit their exams this month. Related articles Britain charges ‘full steam ahead' - Major Brexit deals close Ireland expert savages Liz Truss 'big lie' on Brexit deal "Children are still feeling the effects of the pandemic and with GCSEs and A-levels due to take place as normal this year following two years of cancellations, it is really important they get the support they need to manage any concerns or worries they may have. "As well as speaking to a parent or a teacher, children can contact Childline 24 hours a day, seven days a week and speak to one of our trained counsellors who can provide non-judgmental support and advice." A recent survey by the Association of School and College Leaders found more than eight in 10 headteachers say their pupils are more stressed and anxious about exams this year than they were before the pandemic. Related articles Pancreatic cancer symptoms: The sign that shows up on the loo Always use the ‘four P’s’ to stop slugs and snails ‘wreaking havoc’ Archaeologists stunned by ancient 'terrifying predators' in Americas School Education Nadhim Zahawi Most read in UK Man charged with attempted murder after on duty police officer stabbed in horror attack Children, 3 and 11, among four found dead inside London flat Church of England appoints first transgender archdeacon Former Nottingham University student due in court after deadly knife and van attacks Asda's £4 sunscreen beats £22 premium product in tests Mortgage rate hikes 'will hit people harder than in the 80s' The beautiful UK city with a dark secret as the homeless are hidden from rich tourists Neglected seaside town with a demolished pier is so poor no-one can pay their bills Staggering north-south birthday honours divide as data shows huge southern 'bias' The UK’s 5 most overcrowded summer seaside towns – MAPPED Threat to life warning issued at beach in Cornwall Latest videos Charlie Stayt distracted as unexpected guest interrupts BBC co-star Mike Bushell 'Ditching diesel is a no-brainer' as car ownership rates drop for fifth year Man Utd eye six strikers including Watkins after Ten Hag issued two-word transfer request Alex Scott makes jaws drop as she shows off her toned body in skimpy black bikini Man Utd takeover: Sheikh Jassim 'in pole position' as Ferdinand backed over Qatar claims Multiple small boats intercepted and scores of migrants escorted into Dover Disturbed double killer who stabbed partner and her father left a 'dreadful scene' Huge smoke plume as fire breaks out at Gravesend canal basin ‘I’m a TikTok billionaire and my daughter has a £350,000 car she can’t drive for years’ 'Grace died a hero': Victim of Nottingham attack was stabbed 'trying to save Barnaby' Oxfam chief leaving after releasing anti-trans 'villain' cartoon resembling JK Rowling Huge wildfire rages near MoD Army training camp over 12 hectares as smoke rises Anger grows at UK’s earliest hosepipe ban in heatwave as gardens wilt Tourist at Loch Ness spots 'huge dark shape' in waters sparking Nessie hopes Ex-guardsman reveals secret of not passing out on parade: 'Clench your bum cheeks' Body found in search for missing woman who disappeared from her home in early hours Bottomless brunch backlash as UK daylight drinking trend sparks alarm Outrage after MND heroes Rob Burrow and Kevin Sinfield overlooked in King's new honours Welsh man sent to prison after living with dead friend's rotting corpse for weeks Nottingham: Man charged with murder of three people in city stabbings and van incident Police officer stabbed on duty and airlifted to hospital after horror attack UK's hospitality sector on the brink of oblivion as thousands of businesses face Closure Nottingham police have just hours left to quiz murder suspect before imminent deadline How UK’s spending on refugees has shot up 100-fold in charts – as figure hits £3.6billion Beautiful seaside town is most dangerous place in Cornwall with worst crime of region SEARCH CONNECT WITH US Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Snapchat Check our YouTube channel Subscribe to our rss feed TODAY'S PAPER Saturday, 17th June 2023 See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. News UK Politics Royal US World Science Weather Weird History Nature Sunday Obituaries Latest News Brexit European Union Theresa May Angela Merkel Donald Trump The Queen Kate Middleton Meghan Markle Diesel Cancer Diabetes Dementia YouTube InYourArea Showbiz & TV TV & Radio Celebrity News Sport Football Tennis Transfer news Premier League Manchester United Liverpool Arsenal Chelsea Tottenham Hotspur Manchester City West Ham Everton Celtic Rangers F1 Boxing UFC Cricket Rugby Golf NFL Racing NBA Comment Express Comment Columnists Finance City & Business Personal Finance The Crusader Travel Travel News UK Cruise Activity Holidays Beach Holidays Short & City breaks Express Rated Best VPN Best Sky Deals Best Mattress Best Dating Sites Best UK Broadband Deals Freeview Samsung Sky Android Apple Black Friday Entertainment Films Gaming Music Books Theatre Express Wins Life & Style Style Diets Health Garden Tech Property Life Cars Food Beauty Box Subscription EXPRESS.CO.UK Play Express Wins Apps Puzzles Horoscopes Discount codes Partner Stories Shop Hopsmore Beer Club Paper Sitemap Site Archive About Us Journalists How to Complain Report a Tech Issue Advertising Affiliate advertising Cookies Settings Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms & Conditions Community Standards Developed by Netro42 Syndication and Licensing Clarifications and Corrections IPSO Regulated Copyright ©2023 Express Newspapers. "Daily Express" is a registered trademark. All rights reserved. Would you like to receive notifications from this site? YES NO