Search Report a repair Contact us My Move Account Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Sell Property valuation Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Local Sold House Prices Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Looking to move? Get your property valuation Get your conveyancing solicitor Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations How much can I afford? - use our budget planner and find out Something need fixing - Report a repair Landlords Rental valuation Book an accurate lettings valuation Get an instant online valuation Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations Looking to let? Get your property valuation Get your property managed New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Mortgages Mortgage Services Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Book your mortgage appointment About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection Branches Sales Amersham Hazlemere and Great Missenden High Wycombe Princes Risborough Land & New Homes Lettings Amersham High Wycombe Princes Risborough Fine & Country Fine & Country South Buckinghamshire Other departments Sales Progression Property Management JNP Handyman Services Head Office xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? My Move xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Branches xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Report a repair - Fixflo Branches Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Sell Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Local Sold House Prices Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Existing tenants Report a maintenance issue What to do in an emergency Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations Landlords Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Mortgages Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Careers About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection You're in control We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. To learn more about how we use cookies, please see our Cookie Policy . You can manage your preferences now on this banner, or via your browser at anytime. Functional Active Inactive Analytical Active Inactive Non-essential Active Inactive Manage Accept Home Sell Selling guides First time sellers guide First time sellers guide Book a valuation Selling guides First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale First time sellers guide If you are selling a property for the first time, you may not know what to expect and with so much to consider to ensure everything runs smoothly, the process can appear a little daunting. Our helpful guide provides a check list to get you started, so you have an idea of what to expect. How do I get a property valuation? Finding out how much your property is worth is an important first step. A property valuation should be carried out by an experienced local estate agent who will be able to provide an expert valuation and discuss market conditions, comparable properties sold and marketing plans. Alongside providing a valuation of your home, most agents should then outline their selling fees. Be sure to show all the things you love about your home. Here at JNP, we will listen to understand your goals, timescales, and priorities to shape our advice. This is an important first step in achieving the best possible price for your home and getting you moving. How much does it cost to sell? Once you have an accurate valuation of your home, it's a great time to make a list of all the approximate costs you may have during the selling process. Budgeting carefully from the start helps to avoid nasty surprises further down the line. Costs you may need consider include: Estate agent's selling fees Conveyancer's legal fees Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) Removal costs Mail redirect These are costs related to the sale of your property, and there will also likely be other costs associated with purchasing or renting your next home, so remember to include them too. How will my property be made market ready? Once you have agreed on the guide price and instructed your local agent to sell your home, they should then come out and take professional imagery for use within the marketing brochure and online portals. Floorplans will also usually be made at the same time. If required, an EPC should also be arranged by the agent. Take a look at our top tips on how to get your home ready for photographs. View Preparing your home for sale guide What is property marketing? This is how your property is marketed by your chosen agent and will include the marketing materials such as imagery, property tours and videos and floorplans. It will also include how your property is marketed including the agent's database marketing, online websites and portals as well as social media activity. The way your property is marketed will vary from agent to agent but usually, once your home is launched onto the market, your agent will arrange for a sale board to be erected where appropriate. The property will then be uploaded to your agent’s website alongside the major property portals such as Rightmove and Zoopla to showcase your property to the widest possible audience. Here at JNP we offer the very best professional property marketing, take a look at what is included as standard. Find out more about JNP's property marketing What will happen at viewings? When your property has caught a prospective buyer’s eye enough to arrange a viewing, your agent will contact you to schedule an appropriate time where they can show the viewer your property. After a viewing, your agent should provide you with feedback from the viewer. At JNP we provide an online file called My Move where you can see all viewings and offers. What happens once I receive an offer? The sales negotiator from your estate agent will contact you to let you know if someone has put an offer in on your property. They will communicate between you and the potential buyer to ensure that you are happy with the agreed price if you choose to accept the offer. If you are not happy with the offer, you may wish to decline or wait until a further date to allow time for more offers to be put forward. At JNP all offer updates will be communicated to you through your dedicated agent, but you can also view all offers through the online My Move portal . When should I hire a conveyancer? You need to instruct a conveyancer when you have accepted an offer on your property. You will then need to inform your agent who you have instructed to they can send them details of the sale. How long does it take to sell a house? The time it takes for a sale to complete varies in each case and can be affected by many different factors such as the length of the chain or how long it takes for searches. On average a sale of a house could take anywhere between 8 and 20 weeks. What happens on completion day? On completion day, after both solicitors have made their final checks, the buyers solicitor will then transfer the funds into the sellers account. The estate agents will then release the keys for the property to the new owner. You will have then completed the selling process and will need to move out of your property. If you wish to find out more about the selling process visit our Selling guide Alternatively, if you wish to start your selling journey with JNP get in touch today to arrange your free expert property valuation . Next - The selling process Useful information for sellers Get your property valued Book your valuation today and start your property move Why sell with us? Find out more about selling with JNP Financial services for sellers Helpful information about mortgages and insurance Useful information for sellers Get your property valued Why sell with us Financial services for sellers Book a valuation Contact your local branch My Move account Buy Find Property For Sale Land & New Homes Buying Calculators Rent Find Property To Rent Permitted payments Report a repair Sell Sell your property with us Book a property valuation Get an instant valuation Landlords Landlord services Service options & Fees Guides for landlords Services Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Helpful Links Careers Branches Privacy Notice Legal Information Accessibility Cookie Policy VAT Complaints Procedure Client Money Protection Anti Money Laundering information xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? JNP is a trading name, independently owned and operated under licence from LSLi Limited by AIG (KH) Ltd (company number 14772222), registered in England at 5 Brooklands Place, Brooklands Road, Sale, Cheshire, England, M33 3SD. Also trading as Fine & Country. We may refer you to recommended providers of ancillary services such as Conveyancing, Financial Services, Insurance and Surveying. We may receive a commission payment fee or other benefit (known as a referral fee) for recommending their services. You are not under any obligation to use the services of the recommended provider. The ancillary service provider may be an associated company of JNP.