Search Report a repair Contact us My Move Account Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Sell Property valuation Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Local Sold House Prices Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Looking to move? Get your property valuation Get your conveyancing solicitor Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations How much can I afford? - use our budget planner and find out Something need fixing - Report a repair Landlords Rental valuation Book an accurate lettings valuation Get an instant online valuation Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations Looking to let? Get your property valuation Get your property managed New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Mortgages Mortgage Services Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Book your mortgage appointment About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection Branches Sales Amersham Hazlemere and Great Missenden High Wycombe Princes Risborough Land & New Homes Lettings Amersham High Wycombe Princes Risborough Fine & Country Fine & Country South Buckinghamshire Other departments Sales Progression Property Management JNP Handyman Services Head Office xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? My Move xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Branches xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Report a repair - Fixflo Branches Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Sell Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Local Sold House Prices Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Existing tenants Report a maintenance issue What to do in an emergency Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations Landlords Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Mortgages Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Careers About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection You're in control We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. To learn more about how we use cookies, please see our Cookie Policy . You can manage your preferences now on this banner, or via your browser at anytime. Functional Active Inactive Analytical Active Inactive Non-essential Active Inactive Manage Accept Home Rent Tenant guides During the tenancy During the tenancy Tenant guides First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Damp, mould and condensation Maintenance tips for your rental property What to do if there is an emergency in your rental property Preventing rental fraud During the tenancy Our helpful guide gives an overview of responsibilities during the tenancy and provides details of what to do in a range of situations which might arise. Who can occupy the property Landlords have a legal obligation to ensure that every adult occupant over the age of 18 has the right to rent a property in England. We conduct initial Right to Rent checks before the tenancy starts and will contact you if there is any need for future checks, depending on your nationality and your Visa. You may not transfer your tenancy to another person and it is very important that guests over the age of 18 who are not on the tenancy agreement are not permitted to occupy the property. If one of the named tenants wishes to leave, regardless of whether they are to be replaced, please contact us immediately so we can discuss this with your landlord and make the necessary arrangements. Maintaining the property Tenants are responsible for normal household maintenance including: Replacing light bulbs & fuses Cleaning windows Cutting lawns and maintaining hedges/borders Keeping all guttering and drains clear from leaves and blockages Removal of pests such as fleas, ants, wasps etc. Any other tasks that are considered normal household management. Ventilation of the property is also a necessity, to alleviate condensation. Any condensation within the property is the tenant’s responsibility. Garden maintenance If there is a garden with your property, you must keep it in good order. You must not uproot established trees or shrubs, and you must not remove existing lawns already laid when your tenancy starts. Repairs and maintenance If you should experience any problems with either the contents (owned by the landlord) or structure of the property, please report this to the Property Management team immediately to request an approved contractor to investigate the problem. For more costly repairs, it may be necessary for your landlord to obtain more than one quotation from contractors, or to instruct a surveyor to assess the nature of the problem so that it can be resolved effectively. This will require your assistance so that we can gain access for quotes and we may ask a contractor to call you to arrange access. If you would prefer to be present when a contractor visits you can then book an appointment which suits you. However, if you then cannot attend, please liaise with them to rearrange or they may charge you for their failed visit. You should not to instruct a contractor directly, except in the event of a genuine emergency (an emergency is maintenance matters that pose a threat to health and safety). We offer this advice as the Landlord may not agree with any work undertaken and the liability for paying the invoice may fall to you. Smoke and Carbon Monoxide (CO) Alarms All rented properties must have smoke alarms fitted on each floor of the living accommodation and CO alarms in any room where there is a solid fuel burning appliance (wood, coal etc.) During your tenancy it is your responsibility to periodically test and replace any batteries within the Smoke or CO alarms. We recommend you test them monthly as a minimum to ensure that they are in working order. If you find an alarm is not working, and changing the batteries does not rectify this, you should notify us immediately so that we can arrange a replacement. Gas appliances By law, your landlord must have all gas systems, appliances and flues tested and checked at least every 12 months by a Gas Safe registered engineer. These regulations do not apply to appliances owned by tenants, for example a gas cooker. You’ll have received a copy of the Gas Safety certificate in your move-in pack and we will contact you to arrange an appointment when this is due for renewal. It is in the interests of your own safety and welfare that you co-operate fully with contractors making appointments with you to carry out gas safety inspections. For your own safety we would recommend you have any gas appliances of your own tested once every twelve months. We can supply details of a gas engineer upon request. You will be provided with a copy of the gas safety certificate by the Gas Safe engineer upon completion of the visit. Changes to the property Your landlord wants you to feel at home in the property but remember that the landlord must give their consent prior to any redecoration or alterations. Not complying with this could result in you being charged for the cost of returning the property to its original condition at the end of the tenancy. Lost keys and fobs We know how stressful it can be when you lose your keys, so if this happens, please contact Property Management. If we have another set you will be able to collect them from the office (remember to bring appropriate ID!) to have a set cut at your own cost. If a lock change is required as a result of lost keys we may need to call a locksmith at your cost. Unfortunately you will also need to replace any keys that your landlord holds, so that they can access the property. For properties in a block with communal entrance doors, you may will also need to arrange a replacement keys for you and all other residents in the block. Landlords will not accept liability for the loss of keys by a tenant. Break-ins / vandalism We hope that you will never experience a break-in. However, should this happen during your tenancy please take the following steps: Report the incident to the police and be sure to obtain a crime reference number. It is important that the police are informed and a Crime Reference number obtained otherwise this may prevent you or your landlord from making an insurance claim. Contact your Property Manager if there is any damage to windows or external doors so that we can arrange for a contractor to secure the property. Broken glass and windows With anything dangerous like broken glass, please ensure that you report this to us immediately. It is the responsibility of a tenant to repair any windows or glazing broken at the property during the tenancy both internally and externally with like-for-like glass. Renewal and rent reviews Around two months prior to the end of your fixed term we will contact you to discuss your future plans. The process is similar to the start of the original tenancy and allows further commitment, planning and budgeting for another fixed term. Your Landlord reserves the right to review the rent at this point and may decide to seek an increase, which will be detailed in any renewal paperwork. Previous - Preventing rental fraud Next - Moving out of a rental property Useful information for tenants Why rent with us Find out more about renting through JNP Permitted payments Read through our fees and permitted payment How much can you afford? Use our budget calculator to see how much rent you can afford. Useful information for tenants Find out more about renting xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"? Permitted payments Budget planner Book a valuation Contact your local branch My Move account Buy Find Property For Sale Land & New Homes Buying Calculators Rent Find Property To Rent Permitted payments Report a repair Sell Sell your property with us Book a property valuation Get an instant valuation Landlords Landlord services Service options & Fees Guides for landlords Services Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Helpful Links Careers Branches Privacy Notice Legal Information Accessibility Cookie Policy VAT Complaints Procedure Client Money Protection Anti Money Laundering information xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? JNP is a trading name, independently owned and operated under licence from LSLi Limited by AIG (KH) Ltd (company number 14772222), registered in England at 5 Brooklands Place, Brooklands Road, Sale, Cheshire, England, M33 3SD. Also trading as Fine & Country. We may refer you to recommended providers of ancillary services such as Conveyancing, Financial Services, Insurance and Surveying. We may receive a commission payment fee or other benefit (known as a referral fee) for recommending their services. You are not under any obligation to use the services of the recommended provider. The ancillary service provider may be an associated company of JNP.