Search Report a repair Contact us My Move Account Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Sell Property valuation Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Local Sold House Prices Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Looking to move? Get your property valuation Get your conveyancing solicitor Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations How much can I afford? - use our budget planner and find out Something need fixing - Report a repair Landlords Rental valuation Book an accurate lettings valuation Get an instant online valuation Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations Looking to let? Get your property valuation Get your property managed New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Mortgages Mortgage Services Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Book your mortgage appointment About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection Branches Sales Amersham Hazlemere and Great Missenden High Wycombe Princes Risborough Land & New Homes Lettings Amersham High Wycombe Princes Risborough Fine & Country Fine & Country South Buckinghamshire Other departments Sales Progression Property Management JNP Handyman Services Head Office xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? My Move xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Branches xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Report a repair - Fixflo Branches Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Sell Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Local Sold House Prices Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Existing tenants Report a maintenance issue What to do in an emergency Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations Landlords Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Mortgages Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Careers About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection You're in control We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. To learn more about how we use cookies, please see our Cookie Policy . You can manage your preferences now on this banner, or via your browser at anytime. Functional Active Inactive Analytical Active Inactive Non-essential Active Inactive Manage Accept Home Surveys Property Surveys Buying a house is a big financial commitment, so you don't want to be caught out by not having a clear understanding of exactly what you're buying. Getting a survey allows you to make a well-informed choice. Surveys provide you with the fullest possible picture of your new home, identifying defects which could be costly for you to put right. JNP is delighted to be working with sister company e.surv to educate you about the need for professional, independent advice when you buy your new home. If you would like to book your home survey call 0800 169 9661 (option 2) or fill in the contact form . Why choose e.surv Expert local knowledge Quick turnaround xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"? Clearly explained reports xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"? RICS-accredited Types of survey We offer 3 types of home survey with different levels of information and advice. RICS Level 1 Survey Who is an RICS Level 1 for? A RICS Level 1 Survey is the most basic of the three surveys. It’s designed for home buyers or homeowners who are seeking a professional and objective report on the condition of a property. When is a RICS Level 1 Survey suitable? A RICS Level 1 Survey is best suited to conventionally built, modern properties that are in satisfactory condition. It will not suit older or complex properties, or those in a neglected condition. What will the surveyor do? The surveyor will carry out a visual inspection of the property (which is less extensive than a Level 2 Survey or a Building Survey) and will not carry out any tests on the fabric or services (e.g. electrics, plumbing, heating) of the building. What will be included in the report? The report will objectively describe the condition of the building, its services and grounds, and will provide an assessment of the relative importance of any defects or problems. The report will also highlight any relevant legal issues and/or obvious risks to the building, people, or grounds. A RICS Level 1 Survey report will not include advice on repairs or ongoing maintenance. Where the surveyor is unable to reach a conclusion with reasonable confidence, a recommendation for further investigations will be made RICS Level 2 Survey Who is an RICS Level 2 for? A RICS Level 2 Survey is an intermediate survey designed for home buyers or homeowners who are seeking a professional opinion on the condition of the main elements of a property. It’s less comprehensive than a RICS Level 3 Survey. When is a RICS Level 2 Survey suitable? A RICS Level 2 Survey will suit a broad range of conventionally built properties.It is unlikely to suit complex buildings (e.g. those that have been significantly extended or altered), most unique or older historic properties, or properties in a neglected condition. What will the surveyor do? In comparison with a Level 1 Survey, a RICS Level 2 Survey includes a more extensive visual inspection of the building, its services (e.g. electrics, plumbing, heating) and grounds but does not include any testing. Concealed areas such as roof spaces, basements and cellars will be inspected if it is safe to do so. What will be included in the report? The report will objectively describe the condition of the building, its services and grounds, and will provide an assessment of the relative importance of any defects or problems. It will include basic advice about repairs and any ongoing maintenance issues, and, if the surveyor has access to the current EPC report, they will state the energy efficiency rating, check for any obvious discrepancies between the EPC and the property, and explain the implications. The report will also highlight any relevant legal issues and/or obvious risks to the building, people, or grounds. The surveyor will be able to provide advice on suitable additional services where the homeowner / home buyer is planning on refurbishment work. Where the surveyor is unable to reach a conclusion with reasonable confidence, a recommendation for further investigations will be made RICS Level 3 Survey Who is an RICS Level 3 for? A RICS Level 3 Survey is designed for home buyers or homeowners who are seeking a professional opinion based on a thorough inspection of the property When is a RICS Level 3 Survey suitable? A RICS Level 3 Survey particularly suits older properties built before 1850, those of unusual construction, properties with major extensions or alterations, or those that you already know to have significant defects that need attention. You should also consider a Building Survey if you’re planning any refurbishments or extensions. What will the surveyor do? The RICS Level 3 Survey is the most extensive survey available. The surveyor will carry out a detailed visual inspection of the building, its services (e.g. electrics, plumbing, heating) and the grounds. Concealed areas such as roof spaces, basements and cellars will be inspected if it is safe to do so. Although the survey will not include any testing on the fabric or services of the building, they will be observed in normal operation i.e. they will be switched on or off and/or operated where the occupier has given permission and it is safe to do so. What will be included in the report? The detailed report will objectively describe the form of construction and materials used for different parts of the property. It will describe their condition and provide an assessment of the relative importance of any defects or problems. In addition to this, it will: Describe the identifiable risk of potential or hidden defects in areas that have not been inspected Propose the most probable cause(s) of any defects based on the inspection Outline the likely scope of any appropriate remedial work and explain the likely consequences of non-repair Make general recommendations in respect of the priority and likely timescale for necessary work and Give an indication of likely costs (if required). Where the surveyor is unable to reach a conclusion with reasonable confidence, a recommendation for further investigations will be made Survey comparison guide Unsure which survey is right for you? Take a look at the survey comparison guide, which illustrates the main differences between each of the surveys. View the comparison guide Frequently asked questions Why do I need a survey? Buying a house represents one of the biggest financial commitments you’re likely to make. Your survey report is prepared specifically for you, not your lender. It provides you with information about the condition of the property you’re thinking of buying and a clear summary of the key risks associated with your purchase before you commit to buying. Which survey should I choose? There are a number of different types of house survey. What you choose depends on the depth of survey you want, your budget, plus the age and condition of the property. A RICS Level 1 Survey is the most basic of the three surveys. How much should I expect to pay for my Survey? The cost of your property survey will depend on the value, size and complexity of the property. What is the RICS? The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors – or RICS – is the world’s leading professional body for qualifications and standards in land, property and construction. e.surv is regulated by the RICS and all their Chartered surveyors have individual RICS certification. This is your guarantee of a quality service as the RICS requires its members to update their knowledge and competence during their working life through Continuing Professional Development (or CPD). What is the difference between a valuation and a survey? A mortgage valuation report is prepared to enable your mortgage lender to decide if a property is one that it wants to lend on. It doesn’t answer any questions that may be important to you or your own personal interests and it doesn’t tell you the condition of the property. A survey report provides independent professional advice to the buyer on the condition of the property prior to purchase. It provides information about the condition of the property and a clear summary of the key risks. Read the e.surv brochure for more information Investing in a home survey Take a look at the e.surv brochure to find out why an independent residential survey will paint the most accurate picture of the property you’re thinking of buying. Read the e.surv brochure Talk to us about your property survey Fill out the form and an adviser will be in touch shortly Full name * Phone number * Email address * Which service do you require? * Please choose RICS Level 1 RICS Level 2 RICS Level 3 Independent valuation report Postcode * Your message Submit Open Book a valuation Contact your local branch My Move account Buy Find Property For Sale Land & New Homes Buying Calculators Rent Find Property To Rent Permitted payments Report a repair Sell Sell your property with us Book a property valuation Get an instant valuation Landlords Landlord services Service options & Fees Guides for landlords Services Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Helpful Links Careers Branches Privacy Notice Legal Information Accessibility Cookie Policy VAT Complaints Procedure Client Money Protection Anti Money Laundering information xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? JNP is a trading name, independently owned and operated under licence from LSLi Limited by AIG (KH) Ltd (company number 14772222), registered in England at 5 Brooklands Place, Brooklands Road, Sale, Cheshire, England, M33 3SD. Also trading as Fine & Country. We may refer you to recommended providers of ancillary services such as Conveyancing, Financial Services, Insurance and Surveying. We may receive a commission payment fee or other benefit (known as a referral fee) for recommending their services. You are not under any obligation to use the services of the recommended provider. The ancillary service provider may be an associated company of JNP.