Search Report a repair Contact us My Move Account Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Sell Property valuation Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Local Sold House Prices Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Looking to move? Get your property valuation Get your conveyancing solicitor Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations How much can I afford? - use our budget planner and find out Something need fixing - Report a repair Landlords Rental valuation Book an accurate lettings valuation Get an instant online valuation Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations Looking to let? Get your property valuation Get your property managed New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Mortgages Mortgage Services Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Book your mortgage appointment About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection Branches Sales Amersham Hazlemere and Great Missenden High Wycombe Princes Risborough Land & New Homes Lettings Amersham High Wycombe Princes Risborough Fine & Country Fine & Country South Buckinghamshire Other departments Sales Progression Property Management JNP Handyman Services Head Office xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? My Move xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Branches xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Report a repair - Fixflo Branches Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Sell Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Local Sold House Prices Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Existing tenants Report a maintenance issue What to do in an emergency Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations Landlords Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Mortgages Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Careers About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection You're in control We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. To learn more about how we use cookies, please see our Cookie Policy . You can manage your preferences now on this banner, or via your browser at anytime. Functional Active Inactive Analytical Active Inactive Non-essential Active Inactive Manage Accept Home Property valuation Free property valuation During your free house valuation our property expert will use their local knowledge and expertise to give you an accurate sales or rental valuation. As one of the leading estate agents in the area, we're committed to getting you moving. What is your property worth? It all starts with a valuation stage_1 What's your postcode * Find Select your address stage_2 How many bedrooms? * 1 2 3 4 5+ What type of valuation would you like? * Sales Lettings Both Next step stage_3 Title * Mr Miss Mrs Ms Dr First Name * Surname * Email address * Phone number * Why are you looking? * Selling Buying Letting Renting Remortgaging Just being nosey Yes No xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? We will also send you email marketing including our newsletter which contains special offers, property photos, hot topics and useful tips. You can opt out or change your preferences at any time. If you would like to receive such messages please tick the box. Next step Go back Sorry, we are unable to provide a valuation for this address as it may be registered as a business address. A member of our Valuations Team may be able to provide more information. Book a Valuation to start the process. Your sales valuation {{ min_price }} {{ average_price }} {{ max_price }} Lower estimation Best estimation Higher estimation Your lettings valuation {{ min_price_l }} {{ average_price_l }} {{ max_price_l }} Lower estimation Best estimation Higher estimation This instant value is based on local data and recently sold house prices in your area, . This is an estimate as we are unable to take the condition of your property and any improvements you may have made into consideration. To get an accurate valuation based on a viewing of your property book an expert valuation now. Book a Property Valuation Thank you for requesting a valuation We have received your preferred times. We will be in touch shortly to confirm your appointment. Looking to Remortgage? Get in touch to find out about our latest deals Looking to sell Why sell with us? Find out more Looking to Buy Find out more Book a remortgaging appointment Do you want to save money on your mortgage? Find out more Are you looking for a mortgage? Book a free no obligation appointment Find out more Contact our property management team to discuss your property needs with an expert Find out more Contact our property management team Get in touch with us to discuss your property needs with an expert Find out more Looking to sell Why sell with us? Find out more Contact our property management team Get in touch to discuss your property needs Find out more Are you looking for a mortgage? Book a free no obligation appointment Find out more Select availability I'm free anytime Please select up to 3 slots for your availability Select a date 17 Sat 18 Sun 19 Mon 20 Tue 21 Wed 22 Thu 23 Fri 24 Sat 25 Sun 26 Mon 27 Tue 28 Wed 29 Thu 30 Fri 1 Sat 2 Sun 3 Mon 4 Tue 5 Wed 6 Thu 7 Fri 8 Sat 9 Sun 10 Mon 11 Tue 12 Wed Select a time Once you have made your selection the branch will be in touch to confirm a time with you. All appointments are subject to confirmation. The branch will be in touch to confirm a time with you. All appointments are subject to confirmation. Confirm availability Reasons to sell with JNP Professional marketing We use a mix of professional photography, video tours and accurate floor plans to make your home stand out for sale. xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Created with Fabric.js 3.6.6 £ No sale, no fee If we don’t sell your property we don’t charge any commission. That way you can be sure we're working hard on your sale from listing to completion. Expert lettings agents If you're not sure if selling or letting your property is best - we can help. Our excellent sales and lettings teams can help and advise. What happens at the valuation? 1 Looking round your property Our valuation manager will come to your property and view it with you. They will consider the external and internal presentation of the property as well as the location and other key factors such as size of the garden and which way the property faces. You will also be able to share information about features in the property that you believe may enhance the property value. 2 Getting your property valuation Our valuation manager will discuss with you what they feel the property is worth. They will share information on similar properties that are for sale and have just sold for comparison. 3 Using a leading local agent We will run you through all the benefits of using JNP to sell or let your property. We will talk you through our property marketing options that include professional photography and floor plans. We will let you know how we'll market your property through emails and calls to our large database of buyers and renters as well as listing on leading portals, our own website and social media channels. 4 Discuss the next steps Our valuation manager will discuss the next steps with you, including when they think the best time to list is, what price you should market your property at and what our fees will be. They will then leave all the information with you for consideration. Once you're ready to proceed they can get it started for you. Frequently asked questions Is there a cost for a property valuation? At JNP we offer property valuations free of charge. There will be a fee to sell your property, but this is only paid once the sale completes so you can be sure we're working on your sale all through the process. What is a valuation manager looking at when valuing my property? The valuation manager will be looking at a number of factors when valuing your property. This will include things like location, number of rooms including bedrooms and bathrooms, if there is a study or outside office space. They will also be looking at the external and internal presentation of the property as well as the structural condition of the property. If you have any different features in your property such as underfloor heating, energy recovery schemes, additional land or parking options then you can share that with the valuation manager at the valuation. Can an estate agent do a remortgage valuation? A remortgage valuation is different to sales valuation. If you are looking for a property valuation for a remortgage then it would be better to speak to a mortgage provider about getting a remortgage valuation. If you are looking for mortgage advice, JNP partner with Embrace Financial Services. I'm not sure if I want to sell or let my property Our expert valuers can conduct sales valuations and rental valuations. If you are unsure of whether to sell or let, they will be able to help with both. You can book a property valuation by completing the form above and selecting the type of valuation you are interested in. What happens after I request a valuation? Once you complete the form above to book a property valuation, your local JNP branch valuation manager will attempt to reach you using the contact details you have provided. We aim to contact you within 24 hours of submitting the form to confirm a time suitable for the property valuation. Buy Find Property For Sale Land & New Homes Buying Calculators Rent Find Property To Rent Permitted payments Report a repair Sell Sell your property with us Book a property valuation Get an instant valuation Landlords Landlord services Service options & Fees Guides for landlords Services Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Helpful Links Careers Branches Privacy Notice Legal Information Accessibility Cookie Policy VAT Complaints Procedure Client Money Protection Anti Money Laundering information xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? JNP is a trading name, independently owned and operated under licence from LSLi Limited by AIG (KH) Ltd (company number 14772222), registered in England at 5 Brooklands Place, Brooklands Road, Sale, Cheshire, England, M33 3SD. Also trading as Fine & Country. We may refer you to recommended providers of ancillary services such as Conveyancing, Financial Services, Insurance and Surveying. We may receive a commission payment fee or other benefit (known as a referral fee) for recommending their services. You are not under any obligation to use the services of the recommended provider. The ancillary service provider may be an associated company of JNP.