The 50th Featured Charts Videos Promote Your Music Sign Up 59 Exposure Wilfred Owen Track 15 on Poems by Wilfred Owen Produced by Wilfred Owen In “Exposure,” Wilfred Owen depicts the fate of soldiers who perished from hypothermia before dawn, exposed to the horrific conditions of open trench warfare. Often, before… Read More 1917 1 viewer 383.1K views 234 Contributors Exposure Lyrics 'Exposure' Our brains ache , in the merciless iced east winds that knive us... Wearied we keep awake because the night is silent... Low, drooping flares confuse our memory of the salient.. . Worried by silence, sentries whisper, curious, nervous, But nothing happens. Watching, we hear the mad gusts tugging on the wire, Like twitching agonies of men among its brambles. Northward, incessantly, the flickering gunnery rumbles, Far off, like a dull rumour of some other war. What are we doing here? The poignant misery of dawn begins to grow.. . We only know war lasts, rain soaks, and clouds sag stormy. Dawn massing in the east her melancholy army Attacks once more in ranks on shivering ranks of grey, But nothing happens. Sudden successive flights of bullets streak the silence . Less deathly than the air that shudders black with snow , With sidelong flowing flakes that flock, pause, and renew; We watch them wandering up and down the wind's nonchalance , But nothing happens. Pale flakes with fingering stealth come feeling for our faces--- We cringe in holes, back on forgotten dreams, and stare, snow-dazed, Deep into grassier ditches. So we drowse , sun-dozed, Littered with blossoms trickling where the blackbird fusses , --- Is it that we are dying? Slowly our ghosts drag home : glimpsing the sunk fires , glozed With crusted dark-red jewels ; crickets jingle there ; For hours the innocent mice rejoice: the house is theirs ; Shutters and doors, all closed: on us the doors are closed, --- We turn back to our dying. Since we believe not otherwise can kind fires burn; Now ever suns smile true on child, or field, or fruit. For God's invincible spring our love is made afraid ; Therefore, not loath , we lie out here; therefore were born, For love of God seems dying . Tonight, this frost will fasten on this mud and us, Shrivelling many hands , puckering foreheads crisp . The burying-party, picks and shovels in shaking grasp , Pause over half-known faces. All their eyes are ice , But nothing happens. 59 Embed Cancel How to Format Lyrics: Type out all lyrics, even repeating song parts like the chorus Lyrics should be broken down into individual lines Use section headers above different song parts like [Verse], [Chorus], etc. Use italics ( <i>lyric</i> ) and bold ( <b>lyric</b> ) to distinguish between different vocalists in the same song part If you don’t understand a lyric, use [?] To learn more, check out our transcription guide or visit our transcribers forum About Genius Annotation 3 contributors In “Exposure,” Wilfred Owen depicts the fate of soldiers who perished from hypothermia before dawn, exposed to the horrific conditions of open trench warfare. Often, before death, soldiers would enter a delusional state in which feelings and memories of warmth clouded their minds; Owen portrays this through the imagery of “sunk fires” and other home comforts. The mood is sombre and heart-rending. There is a repeated refrain which represents the boredom of waiting for action experienced by soldiers during long extended battles. Therefore, Owen repeats the phrase ‘But nothing happens’ at the end of several stanzas; ironically as the most significant event does happen; their death. The title is significant in several ways. The soldiers are exposed to two enemies; the Germans beyond no-man’s-land and the fierce elements which are more lethal than the humans. As a fighting soldier himself, Owen was aware that many of his comrades would have preferred a quicker death in action rather than slow death from hyperthermia. But Owen is also referring to his wish to make known — to expose — the incompetence of those in power whose failure to protect the men sufficiently from the weather led them to die of hypothermia. Furthermore, Owen was a Christian who, before the War, was intending to train for the priesthood. The requirement to kill was in conflict with God’s commandment not to kill. The poem could be read as a desperate appeal for peace to be negotiated by those in power. Structure The poem comprises eight stanzas of five lines each, known as quintains. The lines are of uneven length according to the meaning the poet wishes to convey. There is no regular rhyme scheme. This is typical of Wilfred Owen’s poetry. Language and Imagery There are three extended images woven throughout the poem. The fierce weather — snow and frost and rain, describes the conditions suffered by the men — but it is also a metaphor for their death from hypothermia and the pointlessness of the war. Another theme is that of its opposite, the sun, which represents the soldiers' homes, fading hope and the love of God. Lastly there are military references; ranks of soldiers in grey uniforms, bullets, gunfire, and lastly the burying party; the inescapable structures surrounding their lives as soldiers. Owen uses a range of techniques to give the poem coherence and unity, notably vivid use of visual language, long stretched-out lines to suggest waiting; good examples are in line two of stanza three, and the first line of stanza six. The last line of each stanza is short, two repeating refrains; ‘But nothing happens’ and the references to dying in stanzas five, six and seven. These serve to emphasise the themes. Expand +46 9 4 Share Ask us a question about this song Ask a question * ‌ What is the subject of the poem? What's the message? Genius Answer 2 contributors Owen, like many of his poems, addresses war. His intention is not to give soldiers hope nor to praise victory, but “ expose ” the truth. The pronouns he uses are plural—“we”, “us”, “our”—depicting collective suffering and despair. Who produced “Exposure” by Wilfred Owen? When did Wilfred Owen release “Exposure”? Who wrote “Exposure” by Wilfred Owen? Poems by Wilfred Owen (1920) Wilfred Owen 1. Preface 2. Strange Meeting 3. Greater Love 4. Apologia pro Poemate Meo 5. The Show 6. Mental Cases 7. The Parable of the Old Men and the Young 8. Arms and the Boy 9. Anthem for Doomed Youth 10. The Send-Off 11. Insensibility 12. Dulce et Decorum Est 13. The Sentry 14. The Dead-Beat 15. Exposure 16. Spring Offensive 17. The Chances 18. S. I. W. 19. Futility 20. Smile, Smile, Smile 21. Conscious 22. A Terre 23. Wild with all Regrets 24. Disabled 25. Appendix 26. The Next War Expand Credits Produced By Wilfred Owen Written By Wilfred Owen Release Date 1917 Tags Non-Music English Literature Poetry Literature Expand Comments Add a comment Sign Up And Drop Knowledge 🤓 Genius is the ultimate source of music knowledge, created by scholars like you who share facts and insight about the songs and artists they love. Sign Up Genius is the world’s biggest collection of song lyrics and musical knowledge About Genius Contributor Guidelines Press Shop Advertise Privacy Policy Privacy Preferences Licensing Jobs Developers Copyright Policy Contact Us Sign In Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 ML Genius Holdings, LLC Terms of Use Verified Artists All Artists: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z # Hot Songs: ​huh .​ Attention ​я краснею при тебе как (Ibifoyl) Unsteady Two people View All