Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 51 1 51 1 Wellington Road, Edgbaston See map Guide Price £2,500,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 01/06/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×6 BATHROOMS ×3 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Property description A spectacular Grade II Listed stucco villa set within beautiful grounds of 0.8 of an acre, situated on a private road well away from the public gaze. Accommodation and outbuildings in all extending to some 4,800 sq ft including 3 stunning reception rooms, 6 double bedrooms and 3 bath/shower rooms. Situation Highland Lodge is set some 200m off Wellington Road down a private road which leads to just ten dwellings, all set in a peaceful residential location in the heart of leafy Edgbaston. Birmingham City Centre lies some two miles to the north via the nearby A38 Bristol Road. Edgbaston Priory Club with its gym, pool, tennis and squash courts is less than half a mile away as is Edgbaston Golf Club. An excellent choice of private schools including Hallfield, West House, Priory, King Edwards and King Edwards High School for Girls are all nearby making the location an ideal choice for young families. Description Highland Lodge is thought to have been built in around 1830 and displays handsome architecture and many classic Georgian period features throughout. Of particular note are the two storey shallow bows to either side of the entrance on the front elevation which give the house symmetry and grandeur. The property has been Grade II Listed for its architectural and historical importance and it is featured in the renowned Pevsner architectural guide for Birmingham. The property offers beautifully proportioned accommodation set principally over two storeys (plus cellar) and extends in all to an impressive 4,800 sq ft (446 sq m) including outbuildings. The ground floor living space is set around an inviting central reception hall with guest cloakroom WC to the rear, and access to the cellars. There are three fine reception rooms, each with superb proportions and features including large windows, cornicing and exquisite original fireplaces. The drawing room is a magnificent dual aspect room with three full height sash windows within a shallow bow to the south elevation and full height glazed double doors to the west elevation. The dining room has excellent proportions and enjoys a westerly aspect over the grounds via two sets of full height glazed double doors which open out onto the terrace. The third reception room is presently a study but has similar grand proportions to the main drawing room. It too has three full height sash windows set within a shallow bow to the front, as well as a further sash window overlooking the courtyard to the side. The breakfast kitchen overlooks the courtyard and has cream coloured fitted base and wall mounted units, one and a half bowl stainless steel sink with mixer tap, integrated appliances including Neff electric oven and grill, Bosch 4 ring gas hob with concealed extractor over, Bosch integrated dishwasher, under counter fridge. Adjacent to the kitchen is a utility room with further fitted base and wall units, stainless steel sink with mixer tap, space for a fridge freezer, space and plumbing for a washing machine. A part glazed door from the utility room opens out into the enclosed courtyard. The first floor accommodation radiates off an elegant central landing which enjoys an abundance of natural light via a most beautiful arched window on the half landing and a large skylight above the stairs. There are six double bedrooms in all, the largest of which enjoys a prime dual aspect position in the south west corner with views over the grounds through a sash window to the front and two sash windows to the side. Two of the other bedrooms have en suite bath/shower rooms, with the remaining bedrooms sharing the large family bathroom which has bath, separate shower enclosure, wash basin and WC. Outside The house is approached by way of a gravelled driveway which is entered through imposing brick pillars topped with ball finials. The driveway winds through mature planting until it sweeps to a broad opening in front of the house where there are splendid views over the grounds as well as excellent parking provision for multiple cars. To the right hand side, a set of solid timber gates open into the enclosed courtyard with granite setts. The various brick outbuildings are situated here and are made up of the former coach house and stables. There is a large garage with timber double doors, adjacent to which the old stable makes for an ideal workshop/garden store. Adjacent to that is a further workshop/store with stairs leading up to a loft room above, ideal for conversion to a studio, home office, gym, or guest accommodation (subject to any necessary consents). The grounds themselves wrap around the front and side of the house to the south and west, making the house and gardens ideally positioned to benefit from maximum sunlight. Gravel pathways wind through mature planting to the perimeter of the plot, whilst the substantial central lawn provides a large open space. To the west elevation of the house is an elevated sun terrace with steps down to a further terrace, ideal for al-fresco dining. In all we have measured the total plot to be in the order of 0.8 acre (0.32ha). General Information Tenure: The property is Freehold however as it forms part of the Calthorpe Estate it is subject to the Estate's Scheme of Management, a copy of which is available on request. Council Tax: Band H Published June 2023 Brochures Brochure Read more Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent Wellington Road, Edgbaston Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Five Ways Station 0.6 miles Birmingham New Street Station 1.2 miles University Station 1.4 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Robert Powell, Birmingham 7 Church Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 3SH Robert Powell has gained an enviable reputation in Birmingham for its integrity and its high quality, impartial, confidential and professional property service. Perhaps best known for selling some of south Birmingham’s finest houses, our years of experience in the property market means that we are able to provide a full range of services, including: Private House Sales, Residential Lettings and Management, Property Acquisition, Land Disposal & Development Advice, Professional Services and Sur Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Robert Powell, Birmingham 7 Church Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 3SH More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 387 6392 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 101367008490. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Robert Powell, Birmingham . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 387 6392 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho