Skip to main content Subscribe Trial Offer Print copies & Digital access for only £1 Subscribe Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories Close Alert Fashion Grooming Culture Watches Recommends Lifestyle GQ Sports Fitness Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories Close Alert Subscribe Get the magazine plus an exclusive gift from BOSS Subscribe Now Fashion Grooming Culture Watches Recommends Lifestyle GQ Sports Fitness Cars Food & Drink Tech Politics GQ Sports GQ Shops GQ Editor's Club GQ Video GQ Heroes Follow us All products are independently selected by our editors. If you buy something, we may earn an affiliate commission. Fashion Make like Tom Daley and get with the swim trunk summer By Jessie Atkinson 6 June 2023 Embrace the summer of the swimming trunk. From Adidas and Speedo to Vilebrequin and Versace, here’s GQ’s pick of the best swimming briefs for men Swim trunks; swim briefs; budgy smugglers…whatever you call them, these wisps of lycra have been a mainstay in sport and fashion arenas for decades. Loved by professional swimmers for their uninhibited aero-dynamism and style setters for their eye-catching brevity, these daring holiday mainstays can make even a pair of goggles look alluring. But where to get yours? The choices certainly aren't as abundant as in that longer, less aerodynamic, less bold swimwear category swimming shorts , and yet you're still well catered for. First consider the purpose of your new purchase. For purely physical pursuits, try Adidas . For a flashier, more fashion agenda head to CDLP , Burberry or KVRST STVFF . Want something that strikes a balance? Speedo and Nike are your best bets. Sometimes known as swimming briefs (because they truly are brief), this oft-misunderstood piece of swimwear is designed to allow for a fluid range of movement and improve aerodynamics in water. And as demonstrated by Versace ’s very own Medusa pair, they can be a bona fide fashion statement, too. Come one, come all: from athletes to amateurs; from the very buff to the very confident. Choose your new favourite pair of swimming trunks from our edit of the best. What are the best swim trunks? Best fashion trunks: CDLP CDLP £97 at CDLP Landfill and ocean waste made anew, the CDLP swim brief is a feat of sustainability and stylishness. Best sport trunks: Speedo Speedo £23.50 at Speedo If speed is more your…well, speed, the brand with the appropriate nomenclature should be the one you reach for. Long the outfitter of Olympians, these are tried and tested by the best. Most affordable trunks: Adidas Adidas £25 at Adidas For less than the price of an annual British GQ subscription — itself a reasonable offer — you could be the proud owner of the swim trunks favoured by Olympian diver Tom Daley himself. Shop GQ's pick of the best swimming trunks in 2023… 1/11 CDLP First making a name for itself thanks to its silky-feeling lyocell underwear, Stockholm-based CDLP’s swimwear comes with the same tactile feel and sex appeal. First launching swim trunks in collaboration with Lake Como’s iconic Hotel Tremezzo, it now produces its own swim briefs in myriad stylish colourways, all constructed from sustainable Italian-sourced Econyl. £97 at CDLP 2/11 Calvin Klein You may think that wearing a set of trunks smaller than your day-to-day boxers is daring, but what if you went one step further? What if you wore a white pair? The concept becomes curiously appealing when you buy from Calvin Klein, the brand that launched a million white cotton underwear drawers. If you're a CK evangelist, this is the pick for you. £45 at Calvin Klein 3/11 Vilbrequin A brand with almost as much history to it as the Olympic games (well, not quite), Vilebrequin recently celebrated its 50th anniversary with one archive-inspired design per year from 1971 to 2021. Its Nuage swim brief is a classic and comes in an especially flattering cut thanks to the body-shaping seaming at the front. £95 at Vilbrequin 4/11 Speedo Speedo doesn't make beer, but if it did, it would no doubt come in bottles that look a lot like the ones printed on these itsy bitsy teeny weeny yellow swimming briefs. Even serious Olympic outfitters like these can have a little fun, it seems. £29.50 at Speedo 5/11 Versace Few fashion brands have laid quite as great a claim to the swim trunk as Versace. Its Greco and Medusa motif waistline has long been associated with oiled up Italians looking sultry by the poolside. You know it’s a vibe. £110 £88 at Flannels 6/11 Adidas The option favoured by Olympic champion Tom Daley himself, it’s the brand with three stripes that Team GB earned its gold medal in. If you’re striving for athletic achievement in the water, look no further – these are simple and, as evidenced by all those gold medals, very effective. £25 at Adidas 7/11 Burberry If Burberry check has one fan, it is us; if Burberry check has no fans, we are dead. Slap that heritage tartan onto pretty much anything and we're there with feeling: the same goes for these swimming briefs, which are selling like ice cream on a hot summer's day. Be quick; these are the trunks to see and be seen in this year. £320 at Burberry Most Popular Culture The Idol just gave us the worst sex scene in history By Lucy Ford Fashion Once again, Tom Cruise invokes the awesome power of a muscle-padding polo shirt By Zak Maoui Fashion The 21 outfits that made Succession By Eileen Cartter 8/11 Speedo There is no greater name in the swim trunk game than Speedo. Keeping things classic and honing in on the trunk's performative edge, this 7cm brief offers unparalleled freedom of movement in the pool and is chlorine resistant thanks to Enduraflex fabric that’ll withstand regular sessions. Step aside, Peaty… Paris 2024 has a new contender. £23.50 at Speedo 9/11 Nike Nike is at the forefront of athletic-focused designs that look good enough to show off on a sun lounger and this graphic-printed pair is a case in point. In a mix of wavey hues and embellished with the brand’s signature Swoosh, they’re sporty without skimping on style. £29.99 £11 at Sports Direct 10/11 Budgy Smuggler Hailing from the land of beers on the beach and barbecues at Christmastime, is it such a surprise that the knowing, jovial Budgy Smuggler was born in Australia? Made Down Under and consistently brash, there are myriad designs to choose from, including flamingoes, rubber ducks and chillis. Best worn with a mullet and moustache. £33 at Budgy Smuggler Most Popular Culture The Idol just gave us the worst sex scene in history By Lucy Ford Fashion Once again, Tom Cruise invokes the awesome power of a muscle-padding polo shirt By Zak Maoui Fashion The 21 outfits that made Succession By Eileen Cartter 11/11 KVRT STVFF If you have a swimming meet at 10am but a pool party at 1pm, boy does KVRT STVFF have the trunks for you. Chlorine-resistant, UV-protectant and ultra comfortable, the brand's signature extra skimpy kecks come in a new variation of caucasian skin-tone here, combining latte art and tie dye as inspiration. Never has there been a better reason to buy that body hair trimmer you've had your eye on. NOW READ Best men’s sandals for laid-back summer style Swimming workouts: what to know before diving in Best men’s underwear to buy for every body type £116 at KVRT Keywords Fashion Swimwear Tom Daley Olympics Read More Fashion The best men’s gym clothes for a stylish PB GQ ’s ultimate guide to the best gym clothes for men leaves no excuse not to reach a personal best in style By Jessie Atkinson Fashion Meet the future of British fashion: the BFC/GQ Designer Fashion Fund shortlist is here All the entries have been whittled down, and the final winner will be announced on 9 June By Zak Maoui Fashion Martine Rose is really saying something now In a community centre in Highgate, the British designer pushed forward with her narrative that men can wear whatever they want By Zak Maoui Lifestyle 20 sales to shop instead of Amazon Prime Day It's not just Amazon bringing the discounts this month. Here's GQ's pick of the best Prime Day sale alternatives to shop today By Aaron Toumazou Fitness The best stand-up paddle boards to float into next summer As we keenly anticipate the summer of 2023, inflatable stand-up paddle boards will be congesting waterways home and away once more. Use GQ’s buying guide to the water sports trend that blew up in the pandemic to ensure you’re not iSUP-ing without a paddle By Jessie Atkinson Fitness The best running brands to make a catwalk of your next parkrun From Nike and Adidas to Hoka, Satisfy, Brooks and more, these are the best running brands to take you from the start line to the finish line quickly, comfortably and stylishly By Lucy Gornall Fashion The greatest Adidas sneaker collaborations of all time From Bad Bunny to Yohji Yamamoto, these are the best Adidas collabs in history By Adam Cheung Fashion The best men’s trainers in the world this week Want to get your casual wardrobe right? You’re going to need a pair of the best men’s trainers around By Zak Maoui See More Stories Fashion Grooming Culture Watches Recommends Lifestyle GQ Sports Fitness Black Friday Condé Nast Britain CN Traveller Glamour House & Garden Johansens Tatler Vanity Fair Vogue Wired World of Interiors Privacy Policy & Cookie statement Code of conduct Terms & Conditions Contact Editorial Complaints Policy Careers Newsletter Subscribe Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast Select international site Britain Australia Brasil China España France Germany India Italia Japan Korea México Middle East Portugal South Africa Taiwan Thailand Türkiye United States