Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 22 22 Bittell Farm Road, Alvechurch, Birmingham, B48 7AF See map £1,600,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 14/02/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×10 BATHROOMS ×6 TENURE Ask agent Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Property description Summary A huge opportunity to acquire a substantial 4,632 sq. ft detached residence alongside three separate cottages set within a stunning 1.86 acre plot (approx.) surrounded by rolling countryside yet with easy access to the Midlands motorway network and local amenities within both Barnt Green, Alvechurch and Longbridge. This flexible use property offers a wealth of opportunities. Currently, the main residence is very suitable for an extended family or a care type facility, including a 'guest wing' or annex space. With a lovely mature planted garden and 1 acre paddock with pond, it provides ideal rural greenbelt family accommodation, immediately accessible to Birmingham (29 mins by public transport from Barnt Green station) and 5 minutes from the M42 motorway. With three enchanting self contained old cottages nestling in the site, currently all properties are fully leased on short term lets; the main house and three cottages provide a useful £49,000 income per annum. Alternatively, one of the more notable aspects is the site has fantastic development potential. Outline planning permission was granted in May 2022 for the demolition of Bridge Farm house for the construction of up to 8 single storey dwellings (4,788 sq. ft) all with associated parking and amenity space. The new proposed properties will be set alongside the already existing 3 cottages, bringing the site to a total of 11 dwellings. Current Set Up Bridge Farm House - 4,632 sq. ft EPC: C The versatile accommodation comprises: Grand entrance hall with guest WC and cloaks cupboard, generous triple aspect living room, sizeable office, formal dining room, large kitchen/diner and lobby leading to a large walk in storage cupboard, utility room and rear hall. The first floor features a galleried landing, master bedroom with luxury en suite bathroom, three additional double bedrooms and house bathroom. The vast second floor loft space is currently for storage but could potentially be converted into a bedroom suite. Accessed from either within the main house or via it's own entrance at the front, the 'guest wing' (or potential annex facility) offers a large centrally heated double bedroom and separate WC. Meadow View: 906 sq. ft EPC: E Currently featuring a lounge, open aspect kitchen/diner, downstairs shower room, two first floor bedrooms and WC. Gravelled frontage and parking area. The Hayloft: 1,200 sq. ft EPC: C Currently featuring a lounge, breakfast kitchen, downstairs WC and two first floor bedrooms (both with en suites). Garden area and driveway for one vehicle. The Old Forge: 682 sq. ft EPC: E Currently featuring a lounge/diner, kitchen, downstairs WC, one first floor double bedroom and bathroom. Garden area and driveway for one vehicle. Plot The whole plot extends to approximately 1.86 acres in total. Of this, approximately 1.3 acres consists of a paddock with a pond situated at the far end of the plot. Not only is the paddock a fantastic addition to the plot, it offers a number of opportunities for current use but also potential future development. Access to all dwellings is via a private driveway off Bittell Farm Road. The three cottages currently share the use of a brick built four car garage block. Development Opportunity Bridge Farm House The approved plans are described as the 'Demolition of Bridge Farm house and the construction of up to 8 single storey dwellings (4,788 sq. ft) with associated parking and amenity space.' This exciting opportunity is rarely available in such a desirable location. Full plans and other supporting information can be found on the Bromsgrove planning portal, reference 21/01008/OUT There are three designs for the proposed single storey dwellings: Design A (x3): Hall, open plan lounge/kitchen/dining room, two bedrooms and shower room. Design B (x3): Hall, open plan lounge/kitchen/dining room, one double bedroom and bathroom. Design C (x2): Hall, open plan lounge/kitchen/dining room, one double bedroom and bathroom. The one bedroom dwellings will feature one parking space and the two bedroom dwellings will feature two parking spaces. All dwellings will make use of a tiled roof communal bin store. The proposed site has been envisaged as a luxury bespoke development, managed and gated for lock up and leave security. There may also be possibility to upgrade and expand the accommodation of the three cottages (subject to planning permission). Concept drawings have been included within the media and are also available from the office. Opportunity to adapt the development plans may be possible subject to detailed planning, allowing more flexibility to a developer. The paddock has been incorporated into the planning as a beautiful communal garden for the residents of the site to enjoy but also offers development potential for the future (subject to planning permission). Location Set between the highly regarded villages of Alvechurch and Hopwood, the site is also conveniently located for Alvechurch First and Middle schools as well as shopping facilities, train station, pubs and restaurants available in both local villages of Alvechurch and Barnt Green. Two renowned public houses, the 'Peacock Inn' and the 'Coach and Horses' (with it's own mini brewery) lie approximately 2.3 miles away and the beautiful Lickey Hills are just a short distance away offering wonderful walks that enjoy panoramic views over the surrounding countryside. Also nearby are the facilities offered by the recently regenerated Longbridge site (former MG Rover car plant), home to the largest Marks and Spencers in the Midlands and the nearby motorway network brings within reach central Birmingham (9.8 miles) and is just 16 miles from Birmingham Airport. Bridge Farm - Current Room Dimensions Living Room 7.63m x 4.23m (25'0" x 13'10") Office 3.32m x 3.57m (10'10" x 11'8") Dining Room 5.15m x 3.84m (16'10" x 12'7") Kitchen/Diner 4.17m x 5.28m (13'8" x 17'3") Utility Room 3.61m x 3.68m (11'10" x 12'0") Double Garage 6.15m x 5.54m (20'2" x 18'2") Garden Room 4.45m x 2.72m (14'7" x 8'11") Master Bedroom 6.48m x 4.24m (21'3" x 13'10") En Suite 2.68m x 3.51m (8'9" x 11'6") Bedroom 2 5.15m x 3.86m (16'10" x 12'7") Bedroom 3 5.15m x 3.7m (16'10" x 12'1") Bedroom 4 3.62m x 4.07m (max) (11'10" x 13'4") Bathroom 2.45m x 3.41m (8'0" x 11'2") Bedroom 5 5.1m x 5.67m (16'8" x 18'7") Loft Room 7.19m (max) x 8.45m (23'7" x 27'8") Please read the following: These particulars are for general guidance only and are based on information supplied and approved by the seller. Complete accuracy cannot be guaranteed and may be subject to errors and/or omissions. They do not constitute a contract or part of a contract in any way. We are not surveyors or conveyancing experts therefore we cannot and do not comment on the condition, issues relating to title or other legal issues that may affect this property. Interested parties should employ their own professionals to make enquiries before carrying out any transactional decisions. Photographs are provided for illustrative purposes only and the items shown in these are not necessarily included in the sale, unless specifically stated. The mention of any fixtures, fittings and/or appliances does not imply that they are in full efficient working order and they have not been tested. All dimensions are approximate. We are not liable for any loss arising from the use of these details. Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC 1 EPC 2 EPC 3 EPC 4 Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: F Bittell Farm Road, Alvechurch, Birmingham, B48 7AF Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Barnt Green Station 1.7 miles Longbridge Station 1.9 miles Alvechurch Station 1.9 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Arden Estates, Barnt Green 67 Hewell Road, Barnt Green, B45 8NL About Arden Arden Estates was formed in 2010, with the aim of setting new standards in all areas of the way an Estate Agent operates. We are proud to be leading the way in each town in which we operate. We believe that by focusing on what our customers actually want, and what is right for them, we can build a loyal and committed relationship. By investing and embracing all that has changed in our world in recent times, we never stop trying and testing new marketing metho Read more More properties from this agent Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Arden Estates, Barnt Green 67 Hewell Road, Barnt Green, B45 8NL More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 387 6453 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference S232761. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Arden Estates, Barnt Green . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 387 6453 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho