My Foxtons Menu Buy Sell Rent Landlords Auctions House prices Inspiration About Contact Valuation Our services Home Sell Foxtons Private Office You are not logged in. Log in / Register Foxtons Private Office A bespoke service when you have a unique property Call us on 020 7893 6335 to speak to one of our property experts or email us and one of our experts will get in contact with you Email us today Unique properties require a tailored approach Foxtons Private Office gives you access to a dedicated team of our most experienced managers and directors to ensure a personalised sales or letting experience. Our network of interconnected offices across London means we have the relationships required to help you reach the perfect audience. 40 years at the forefront of the London market gives our Foxtons team unmatched experience in brokering the city’s rarest residential properties. Marketing is tailor-made for each property and includes a virtual reality tour. Selected buyers are drawn from our database and the thousands of new applicants registering with us every month. Our award-winning website and market-leading technologies complete the package to provide the quality of service that you and your prestigious property deserve. Your Foxtons Private Office team Our Foxtons Private Office team is made up of some of the most experienced managers, valuers and negotiators in the Prime Central London market Umed Sharifi Associate Director Umed has been brokering Prime London property since 2012, facilitating deals for investors and international developers, and completing high-value acquisitions, particularly across the prime Mayfair, Marylebone, Hyde Park and Notting Hill. Umed now focuses on the sale and acquisition of properties valued at £3m and above, across prime Central London. Kyle Spence Associate Director Kyle has built a strong network of national and international developers across the Capital through his work in the Central London property market since 2010. He has an extensive knowledge of the new homes and investment markets. Kyle focuses primarily on the sale of new-build properties in Mayfair, Marylebone, Chelsea, Notting Hill and other prime enclaves of Central London. Thomas Brooks Operations Director/Head of Private Office Tommy began as a negotiator in our Sloane Square Office in 2007. He has since developed an extensive knowledge of Knightsbridge, Chelsea, and Belgravia and a large network of clients and developers. He now focuses primarily on the sale of properties in Chelsea, Knightsbridge and Belgravia through to Parsons Green and Fulham. Laurence Howell Rare Mortgage Adviser Laurence has over 13 years of industry experience and extensive knowledge of the mortgage market, which allows him to provide a high-end customer experience. His expertise in residential, buy to let and specialist property financing solutions. Notable Foxtons Private Office sales Pont Street, Knightsbridge, SW1X £5,300,000 We successfully negotiated the sale of this fabulous apartment after building an excellent working relationship with the seller over a number of years. We sourced the buyer directly through our extensive network of industry contacts, having previously conducted numerous deals with them and their clients. The Hidden House, Notting Hill, W11 £25,000,000 Drawing from our extensive contacts list, we were able to arrange a one-off viewing for this remarkable property – previously listed with other agents for many months. Having secured an offer £3m above the £22m asking price, we exchanged contracts within 24 hours from receipt of contract. Eaton Terrace, Belgravia, SW1W £6,650,000 We achieved the highest price for a property of this type in 2018, working closely with our teams across London to find the ideal buyer. Following the sale, the new owner tasked us with securing a managed rental of the property and we then promptly secured a tenant on a three-year lease. Back Lane, Hampstead, NW3 £7,000,000 A truly unique house in a prime Hampstead Village location. Accessed discreetly by a gated drive, the house offered amazing lateral space and privacy in a special location. The Lancasters, Lancaster Gate, W2 £16,000,000 Arguably the premier development North of Hyde Park. Benefitting from south facing park views, 24-hour concierge, underground parking and elite leisure facilities, this apartment can truly be defined as best in class. Wilton Street, Belgravia, SW1X £6,400,000 We sourced this house for buyers we had been working with for some time via a local Estate Agency. The property was subject to competitive bidding, but with our experience and “know how” we exchanged contracts swiftly to secure the purchase. Brompton Square, Knightsbridge, SW3 £6,500,000 A much loved family home, located on a premier Knightsbridge Garden Square and requiring full refurbishment, was agreed after multiple offers within two weeks from the launch of marketing. Addison Crescent, Holland Park, W14 £15,000,000 A completely off-market sale of a wonderful family home in Holland Park. The owners had registered with us as buyers and, wanting to sell before they bought, they allowed us to introduce some buyers we had been working with for some time. A sale was agreed without the property ever been overtly marketed. Chipstead Street, Parsons Green, SW6 £4,000,000 This fantastic house on Parsons Green’s Peterborough Estate was initially viewed virtually via the online Matterport 3D tour. The buyers then proceeded to offer on the house initially based upon this medium, which allowed them to acquire their new home despite the national lockdown. Portman Square, Marylebone, W1H £3,395,000 A first floor lateral apartment located on one of the most sought after garden squares in Marylebone. The Middle Eastern buyer was attracted to the property initially from our virtual tour and market leading website. Onslow Gardens, South Kensington, SW7 £2,000,000 We sold this truly “best in class” first floor apartment on South Kensington’s premier address. With an abundance of terracing, natural light and period charm, we were delighted to exchange contracts within weeks of the property being launched to the market. Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, SW3 £4,500,000 Having initially sold this apartment to the owners in 2008, we subsequently let the property numerous times for them until they decided to sell the property in 2020. A local resident looking for a rare lateral space was charmed by the river views and purchased the property in August 2020. Eaton Mews South, Belgravia, SW1W £3,750,000 Having successfully rented this property for over a decade, the owner decided he now wanted to sell. Using our contact list of leading buying agents we agreed a sale swiftly to a family from Hong Kong looking for a London home. Smith Street, Chelsea, SW3 £3,500,000 We sold this Grade II listed house, which had been in the same ownership for over 50 years. Full of character and original features, the buyers were drawn to the opportunity to be able to create their dream Chelsea home just off the Kings Road. Mountview Close, Hampstead Garden Suburb, NW11 £4,000,000 This incredibly large duplex Penthouse apartment had been for sale via other agents for a few years prior to our engagement. Our extensive marketing allowed us to source a buyer drawn to the incredible potential and rarely available size of this apartment. Enquire now Call us on 020 7893 6333 Our services Sell your home Foxtons Private Office How much is your home worth? Book a valuation appointment Help for sellers Help & Guides Contact us We value your privacy We use necessary cookies to make our website work and we'd like to use other cookies to give you the most relevant experience. Click “Accept all” to agree to all cookies, or for more options click on “Change Settings”. For more information see our cookie policy Accept All Change Settings Privacy and Cookies Policy Introduction Strictly necessary Functionality cookies Performance cookies Performance cookies Performance cookies let us collect information about how the website is used. For example, we may record what pages are visited most. This data allows us to see where we could optimise the website and make it more efficient. Foxtons: tbp, twp2, tws. tco, referrer Foxtons uses performance cookies to help understand how our visitors use the website and how we can improve our website. We also host the following third-party solutions, which may set the following cookies: Google Analytics: _ga, _gat, _gat_UA-<TOKEN>, utmx, utmxx Google Analytics cookies are used to distinguish users and sessions and gather usage data related to your visit to our website so we can improve our website. AddThis: _atssc, _atuvc, _atuvs, _ Some pages may have the AddThis social plugin to allow you to share pages to your social network and for Foxtons to view reports on which pages were shared and how. Crazyegg: _ceir, is_returning, _CEFT, _ceg.s, _ceg.u, s, u, cer.s, cer.v Crazyegg is a third-party optimisation solution which helps us to test, analyse and improve each user's experience on the website based on their online behaviour. Functionality cookies Functionality cookies allow the website to remember settings such as the screen size, which lets us serve the right content without overloading any network or device capacity. mortgage - Stores your mortgage settings for use across the website. recent - Stores information of the last pages you have viewed. screen - Stores the screen size of the device that you are viewing our website on. This allows us to serve the right content for the device you are using without overloading your network and preserving best layout. Strictly necessary cookies Strictly necessary cookies allow you to log into your account and view account details without a need to log in again every time you navigate to subsequent page. These cannot be disabled. foxtons_session - Stores information about whether you are logged in into your account or not. visit_secure_token2 (session) - Stores information necessary to access your account. cookie_policy_displayed - Stores information about the cookie policy declaration. search - Stores your preferences as to how you prefer your results to be displayed i.e display 10 properties per page and price filter ‘from highest to lowest'. is_logged_in - Recognize when a user is logged in, to allow access to restricted areas of the site. What are cookies? To make your experience visiting the Foxtons website as simple and convenient as possible we place small data files known as "cookies" on your computer. This practice is used by many websites. Cookies are created when your browser loads the website. The website sends information to the browser which then creates a text file. Cookies are stored on your device for various periods of time, from as short time as the duration of your browsing session to several months. Every time you come back to the website, the browser retrieves and sends cookies to the server, which helps to improve your experience of the website by: Remembering settings, so you don't have to re-enter them every time you visit Remembering your last properties and searches, helping you to keep on top of new listings Measuring use of the website so that we can see where we can improve You can manage and/or delete these small files from your device, but please be aware that this will limit the functionality that we are able to offer to you. Allow all cookies Save preferences Find your next home Search Unlock the true value of your home Get a valuation Lettings & Property Management New to Foxtons? Instruct us Existing customers Login to My Foxtons Explore news articles, area guides and interior design trends Setting the standard in estate agency We combine best-in-class people and technology to set the standard for service in estate agency Find your nearest office Find your nearest office Our Services Setting the standard in estate agency First time buyers How much can I borrow? Guide to buying Moving home How much is my home worth? Register with Foxtons Find a property New Homes availability Asia Pacific Help for buyers Advantages of choosing Foxtons Mortgages Conveyancing Stamp Duty calculator Why buy a new build? Property Surveys and Lease Extensions Our services Sell your home Foxtons Private Office How much is your home worth? Book a valuation appointment Help Help & Guides Contact us Rental searches Lettings Short lets Corporate relocation Student accommodation Tenant advice Guide to renting Right to Rent Why use Foxtons? Area guides Your tenancy Register with Foxtons My tenancy in My Foxtons Fees & terms Tenant support Our services Find tenants Property Management Specialist services Short lets Help being a landlord Help & Guides Buy to Let Mortgages Property inspiration Blog Interior Design Local life Area guides Schools Let's get social Facebook Twitter Instagram Our company About us Our history Investor Relations Careers Inside Foxtons News from Foxtons Foxtons' Minis Testimonials Social Media Community Community Environment People Our services Register to find a new home Valuation New Homes Corporate Relocations Customer services Opening hours Existing Lettings Feedback Complaints Internal enquiries Press Reports Recruitment Investor Relations All other enquiries Buying and Selling Buying New Homes Selling Landlords and Renting Landlords Property Management Renters Short lets Specialist Services B2R & Institutional PRS Foxtons Private Office Corporate relocation Asia Pacific About Foxtons About Foxtons Estate Agent Sales jobs in London Property Management in London Tenancy FAQs Mobile apps Branch Finder Our estate agencies Central London estate agents East London estate agents North London estate agents South London estate agents Surrey estate agents West London estate agents Popular searches London property for sale London lettings London short lets New Homes in London Property intelligence Area guides House price reports Rental reports Home valuation service © Foxtons Estate Agents Investors Terms and Conditions & Privacy Policy Cookies Policy Sitemap