Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Share this Share on Facebook Share on Twitter https://www.rightmove.co.uk/moving-stories/grand-designs-10-storey-water-tower-home/?utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=sharing&utm_campaign=moving-stories Page link copied! We live in a 10-storey ‘Grand Designs’ water tower Share this Share on Facebook Share on Twitter https://www.rightmove.co.uk/moving-stories/grand-designs-10-storey-water-tower-home/?utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=sharing&utm_campaign=moving-stories Page link copied! Jamie and his housemate Susanna were longtime residents of south-west London, an area they both loved. But it was a showstopping 10-storey converted water tower that drew them from their adored SW6 postcode, to the opposite side of London, and a new life in SE1 . And if the building looks familiar, chances are you’ve clocked this incredible south London home on Grand Designs: an episode of the show that’s regularly namechecked as one of fans’ favourite renovations from across its many series. If you’ve seen the south London water tower episode, you’ll know that the previous owners undertook a mega renovation project when they bought the property in 2011, taking the derelict building – which was then an empty shell, home to pigeons rather than people – and made it into the incredible home it is today. And this extraordinary home understandably draws regular interest and curiosity from passers by. “We often get people ringing the doorbell asking if they can take a look around”, Jamie says. “Then some will ask where the buzzers for the other flats are. They’re surprised to find out it’s one home”, says Jamie. Discovering a new London neighbourhood Before moving to the water tower, Jamie and Susanna lived on the same road in Fulham. They met as neighbours many years ago, and have been friends ever since. Jamie lived with a friend in a 2-bedroom ground floor flat, while Susanna lived just a couple of minutes’ walk away. “I’d lived in west London all my life, so when I was searching for a new home I was really focused on that area,” says Jamie. “I was looking in Battersea and Fulham as this is the area I grew up in and knew well, and Elephant and Castle wasn’t on my radar originally.” “I was browsing homes across London within my price bracket on Rightmove, and when I first saw the water tower, I originally thought it had to be a joke. I remember saying, ‘there’s no way this is a real home’! And I just had to see it”, says Jamie. “As soon as I walked in, I knew I was going to buy it – I just loved it.” And Jamie and Susanna are testament to how exploring new areas of London can lead to a discovery you weren’t expecting, and even your dream home. From derelict shell to showstopping home Susanna, an architect, has a passion for the building’s history and heritage. She says the original plans for the newest part of the building were refused on account of the building being listed, with the council advising that the plans needed to be revised. Now, a modern extension with the kitchen and living room sits separate to the original water tower structure. Here you’ll find Europe’s biggest windows on a residential property, which slide open to bring the outdoors-in. There’s also the oasis-style roof terrace with its curated planters and hot tub. “It’s so quiet here”, says Jamie, “you almost feel like you’re in the countryside, even though you’re just a few minutes from central London.” The historical part of their home – the original water tower structure – is where the bathrooms and bedrooms are. This listed part remains fully intact, with the concrete staircase, metal handrail and porthole windows having been lovingly restored. The floor that once housed the huge water tank, at the top of the building, needed to be assessed to make sure it was safe. Thankfully this feature could be retained, and it’s this part of the home that offers those showstopping, wraparound views of London through incredible glazed walls. A new area, and a new London life Living in the water tower seems like an adventure in itself. “When we first moved in, we could never find each other so would WhatsApp, ‘Which floor are you on?’,” laughs Susanna. “We ended up putting different pieces of art on each stairwell so we knew where we were, as we kept getting lost.” she says. “We almost needed to learn how to use the building when we moved in, things like the lighting and the speakers, as we didn’t know how anything worked.” “And there’s so much going on here, the area is amazing,” Jamie says, when talking about local Elephant and Castle. “We’ll go to Mercato Metropolitano – a local community-led food market. We also go to central London more often too, because it’s so easily accessible from here. There’s also plenty of space for the water tower’s two resident dogs – French bulldog, Dexter, and Shar-pei, Deipha – to roam around. See the water tower for yourself with Open House Festival Open House 2022 gives festival-goers the chance to hear the story of the building from those that know it best: “When we do our tours for Open House, people who want to hear about the architecture and the history of the building can go with Susanna, and people who want to hear funny stories can come with me!”, laughs Jamie. Susanna has been to many Open House venues since she moved to London from Italy, but this will be the first time she’s taken part as a host. She lists Battersea Power Station as one of the favourite things she’s visited past years, as well as private homes in Greenwich, and Primrose Hill. Helping Londoners discover areas they aren’t familiar with, and telling the story of Londoners and their homes, is exactly what Open House is about. “When I say to people I live in the Kennington water tower, they can’t believe I live here!”, says Susanna. But despite its magnitude, this building is above all things, a home: “Moving here has been a big change, but we love it”. Explore homes for sale in Elephant and Castle READ MORE: Visit a self-build London neighbourhood during Open House 2022 Photography by Joe Woodhouse Share this Share on Facebook Share on Twitter https://www.rightmove.co.uk/moving-stories/grand-designs-10-storey-water-tower-home/?utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=sharing&utm_campaign=moving-stories Page link copied! More moving stories... A surprising move to the big city was our right move Meet the couple who broke the rules. Go to article Buying with her best friend was Makeda’s right move Their leap of faith paid off; here's their story. Go to article Race for a school place triggered our search Sarah and Andy had no time to find a house in their school catchment area. Go to article View all moving stories Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Resources Where can I live? Schools Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Mobile apps Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London London stations Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Agents and Developers Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho