Search Report a repair Contact us My Move Account Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Sell Property valuation Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Local Sold House Prices Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Looking to move? Get your property valuation Get your conveyancing solicitor Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations How much can I afford? - use our budget planner and find out Something need fixing - Report a repair Landlords Rental valuation Book an accurate lettings valuation Get an instant online valuation Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations Looking to let? Get your property valuation Get your property managed New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Mortgages Mortgage Services Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Book your mortgage appointment About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection Branches Sales Amersham Hazlemere and Great Missenden High Wycombe Princes Risborough Land & New Homes Lettings Amersham High Wycombe Princes Risborough Fine & Country Fine & Country South Buckinghamshire Other departments Sales Progression Property Management JNP Handyman Services Head Office xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? My Move xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Branches xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Report a repair - Fixflo Branches Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Sell Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Local Sold House Prices Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Existing tenants Report a maintenance issue What to do in an emergency Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations Landlords Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Mortgages Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Careers About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection You're in control We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. To learn more about how we use cookies, please see our Cookie Policy . You can manage your preferences now on this banner, or via your browser at anytime. Functional Active Inactive Analytical Active Inactive Non-essential Active Inactive Manage Accept Home Buy Buying guides House viewing tips House viewing tips Buyers guides First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud House viewing tips You need to make sure you're making the right decision based on your heart and your head. Making the most of the viewing is crucial. In reality you spend very little time viewing a property in relation to the size of the financial commitment you'll be making. Here are a few of our top tips to help: Visit the property separately to the viewing Try to walk or drive past the property before the viewing. Is there parking available? Is the street busy? Make sure you view the area at different times, a street that is quiet during the day could become totally rammed during rush hour. You can also check the distance from the property to key locations such as work or school, and what amenities are in the local area. Request a virtual viewing and go online Lots of agents offer virtual viewings where you can view the property from the comfort of your own home. This could be a property video or a 3D virtual tour. Both of these options could give you an early feel about whether or not you want to visit the actual property. You can take a virtual tour of the area too using Google street maps and Google Earth. This will help you see what else is in the local area. Make a list Before you go make a list of all the things that are important to you in the property. You can also make a list of questions that you want to ask. That way you go in knowing your priorities and can refer to them throughout the viewing. Take someone with you If you can, take someone with you. This could be a friend or family member. Not only is this safer, but it's always helpful to talk to someone about your thoughts about the property and the area. You will be able to bounce ideas off them and get a second opinion. Have a good look at the property Check the outside first Does the property have curb appeal? Is there parking? What does the brick work, guttering and roof look like? Have a look at the garden if there is one, what is the soil like? Is it prone to flooding? Are there any trees with Tree Preservation Orders (TPOs)? Where are the boundaries and what are you responsible for? Whilst any issues will be picked up at a survey, it's good to have your own look first. Have a good look inside Is it the right layout for you? If not are there options to renovate? What condition are the kitchen and bathrooms in? Where are the heaters? Are they in good working order? Check the windows are in a good condition. Don't be afraid to ask when things like heating and windows were last maintained or replaced. Check the corners of rooms and around windows for signs of damp. Has the property recently been decorated? Can you look in the loft or any outbuildings? Ask lots of questions Plumbing - how long does it take for hot water to come through, how efficient is the boiler? When was it installed and last serviced? Is there a service record? Planning permission - has any work been done on the property that required planning permission? Do they have all the certificates? Do they have any guarantees for the boiler or windows if they have recently been replaced. Bills - it will help to know what average costs are for the various bills, this will include council tax, energy bills and water rates. What will be included - find out what fixtures and fittings are included in the sale, for example carpets, cooker, curtain poles. Get to know who is selling the property The more you know the easier it is to understand what is likely to happen, and if there is a good rapport they may consider you favourably. You could also talk to the neighbours to get a feel for who they are. They may be able to give you top tips about what they like and don't like about the area before you commit. Talk to the agent Whilst the agent will be working for the seller, you can talk to them about the property and others in the area as they will be the the local property experts. Take time to reflect Don't rush to make an offer, even if there is pressure to do so from the agent or seller. Make sure you think through whether the property is really right for you. Check your list and compare against your wants and needs. Only make an offer once you're sure it's right for you. Good luck! Previous - First time buyers guide Next - Moving house guide Useful information for buyers View all available properties Buy your next home with JNP Financial services for buyers Information about mortgages, conveyancing and insurance Buyer calculators Use our calculators to help with your budgets Useful information for buyers View all available properties Financial services for buyers Buyer calculators Book a valuation Contact your local branch My Move account Buy Find Property For Sale Land & New Homes Buying Calculators Rent Find Property To Rent Permitted payments Report a repair Sell Sell your property with us Book a property valuation Get an instant valuation Landlords Landlord services Service options & Fees Guides for landlords Services Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Helpful Links Careers Branches Privacy Notice Legal Information Accessibility Cookie Policy VAT Complaints Procedure Client Money Protection Anti Money Laundering information xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? JNP is a trading name, independently owned and operated under licence from LSLi Limited by AIG (KH) Ltd (company number 14772222), registered in England at 5 Brooklands Place, Brooklands Road, Sale, Cheshire, England, M33 3SD. Also trading as Fine & Country. We may refer you to recommended providers of ancillary services such as Conveyancing, Financial Services, Insurance and Surveying. We may receive a commission payment fee or other benefit (known as a referral fee) for recommending their services. You are not under any obligation to use the services of the recommended provider. The ancillary service provider may be an associated company of JNP.