Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 28 28 Lordswood Road, Birmingham, B17 See map Guide Price £1,995,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 09/06/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×4 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features 5 bedrooms 4 reception rooms 4 bathrooms Contemporary design On the corner of two very popular residential roads Minimalist zen garden Detached Double Garage Property description Kuro Koti or "black house" was designed in 2018 by award-winning Birmingham architects BPN. With its high-end aesthetic appeal and well-proportioned open-plan spaces it works as the perfect contemporary home. With no curves, the architectural lines, natural surfaces and the cast concrete terraces fit the brief perfectly. The open plan design and floor to ceiling windows provide uninterrupted views of the generous yet minimal enclosed garden area. Sitting on a corner plot, Kuro Koti can be accessed from Lordswood Road or Croftdown Road. There is ample parking for five cars to the side of the house and two cars at the front. Electric gates controlled via mobile phone provide access to the large garage and garden. The front door opens to the stunning open-plan living space. Designed with flow and light in mind this superb home with minimalist design is incredibly flexible in its use. The impressive reception hallway provides access to the open-plan living space. There is a self-contained home office for privacy and a useful guest cloakroom/WC. The snug area with woodburner and views of the landscaped garden can either be connected or separated from the main living area with a concealed sliding partition. The contemporary kitchen is incredibly well fitted with bespoke, handmade cabinetry in a handleless matt finish and with complementing worksurfaces. A superb range of fitted appliances includes a Liebherr wine fridge, Neff fridge, Neff freezer, Neff dishwasher, Elica gas hob and De Dietrich duel ovens and plate warmer. The separate utility, sitting behind the kitchen provides ample space for the larger appliances. The feature floating staircase rises to the generous first floor landing area where all five of the double bedrooms can be accessed along with the family bathroom. The large principal bedroom suite is stunning. Bi-fold doors open to an amply-sized sun terrace, the perfect spot for breakfast or bedtime relaxation. Two feature glass walls allow the magnificent en suite bathroom to be admired, this really must be seen to be appreciated. The dual-end bathtub sits to the middle of the space with dual wash hand basins, a separate walk-in shower and a separate WC making bathtime relaxation impossible to interrupt. Bedrooms two and three also have the benefit of excellently fitted en suite shower rooms. Bedrooms four and five are served by the stunning family bathroom. All of the bathrooms are fitted with handmade cabinetry and Italian terrazzo tiles. The minimalist zen garden has been created as a relaxing outdoor space that is easily maintained. The covered outdoor dining area sits under the cantilever of the first floor and is a haven for relaxation regardless of the weather next to the decked sun terrace, perfect for enjoying the warm summer sunshine. There is a feature pond and further interest. Central Birmingham 3.7 miles, M5 (J3) 3.2 miles, Birmingham Airport/NEC 13.3 miles (all distances are approximate) Harborne village is easily accessible and offers a range of independent stores, boutique shops and a cosmopolitan array of bars and eateries. A wide range of schools for children of all ages is available in both private and state sectors in the vicinity. They include Hallfield Preparatory School, West House School, Blue Coat School, Edgbaston High School for Girls, St George's School, The Priory School and The King Edward's Foundation Schools. The house is within close proximity of Harborne Primary and Junior School. There is a well-established sporting presence, with thriving local cricket, rugby, hockey, tennis and golf clubs. Harborne Pool and Fitness Centre is only 0.5 miles away, and Lightwoods Park is a mere 0.7 miles, perfect for walks and relaxation. There is easy access to the Midlands motorway network at Junction 3 of the M5 or Junction 6 of the M6. Brochures More Details Brochure Kuro Koti.p Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. Energy performance c Generated EPC Graph. Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: G Lordswood Road, Birmingham, B17 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode University Station 1.6 miles Smethwick Galton Bridge Tram Stop 2.0 miles Smethwick Rolfe Street Station 2.2 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Knight Frank, Birmingham 18th Floor 103 Colmore Row Birmingham B3 3AG About us We are passionate about property. Our foundations are built on supporting clients in one of the most significant decisions they'll make in their lifetime. As your partners in property, we act with integrity and are here to help you achieve the very best price for your home in the quickest possible time. We offer a range of services for your property requirements. If you are selling, buying or letting a home, or you need some frank advice and insight on the current property Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Knight Frank, Birmingham 18th Floor 103 Colmore Row Birmingham B3 3AG More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 387 6426 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference BRM012359372. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Knight Frank, Birmingham . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 387 6426 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho