Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 64 64 Bowfell, 52 Peel Road, Thorntonhall See map Offers Over £1,395,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 17/04/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×4 SIZE 3,788 sq. ft. (352 sq. m.) TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Bowfell is one of Thorntonhalls original landmark houses, set within approximately half acre of private gardens and offering beautiful family accommodation. Retaining a high degree of privacy within approximately 0.5 acres of private gardens with gated driveway. The house displays some beautiful period design features, successfully married with a contemporary upgrading program. Highly flexible and versatile, the house extends to approximately 3788 square feet or thereby. Gated driveway offering parking for multiple vehicles giving access to integral double garage. Property description Description Bowfell is one of Thorntonhalls most admired, signature landmark homes that dates to approximately 1890 and is set within approximately 0.5 acres of highly secluded and private, gated garden grounds. Set well back from the road, the propertys position within the affluent commuting village of Thorntonhall gives easy access to local commuting links, walking distance to train links and the village lends itself to those seeking a lifestyle/private setting with easy commuting. Distinguished by its beautiful honey blonde sandstone exterior with decorative sandstone finishes, the property is being presented to the market for the first time in many years and offers a wonderful/extraordinary opportunity to the marketplace. Extending to approximately 3788 square feet or thereby, the house has been painstakingly refurbished, upgraded and redesigned to deliver flexible and versatile family accommodation encompassed over a two storey layout. Notable improvements include some replacement sash and casement double glazed windows, security alarm system, high performance gas central heating system with maintained boiler, CCTV security and the property exhibits stylish/modern interior that reflects the needs of a professional/discerning purchaser. Beautiful vestibule leading into lovely traditional style hallway with impressive staircase and feature leaded arch window at landing, wooden flooring and original panelled doors giving access to stunning drawing room with focal point marble fireplace and decorative cornicing, formal dining room with focal point fireplace and decorative cornicing, fully fitted and built in home office/study, extensive walk in cloaks area with WC, 29 foot dining kitchen with hand made kitchen units with central island and fully integrated appliances with Rangemaster cooker, kitchen has French doors to gardens and gives access to a lovely TV/snug area with focal point fireplace and bespoke finishes. There is a games room located off the dining kitchen which offers flexible space, focal point fireplace, fitted bar area and a lovely guest suite with its own en-suite shower room, the ground floor is further completed with a large rear hallway area with built in storage, laundry and access to a gym area which in turn, gives access to a second ground floor bedroom suite with French doors to gardens and contemporary styled en-suite shower room. The remaining portion of the accommodation on the ground floor is integral access from the gym giving access to double garage (21'4” x 18'4”). Impressive broad staircase leads to upper landing with access to principal bay windowed bedroom to the front with extensive built in bespoke bedroom furniture, second double bedroom with built in furniture, en-suite shower room and large walk in fitted dressing area, third bedroom on the upper floor has built in storage and there is a beautifully appointed bathroom with walk in shower enclosure and contemporary tiling. Bowfell offers highly private and secluded mature garden grounds which are gated and have high trees to front providing privacy with lawn area and expansive lawn area to the rear with sun patio. EER Band D. Local Area Thorntonhall is a quiet leafy village displaying a variety of individual and impressive detached residences and is widely regarded as one of Glasgow's premier addresses. Excellent shopping facilities are available in East Kilbride or the nearby suburbs of Clarkston, Giffnock and Newton Mearns, with a number of major supermarkets including Waitrose and Whole Foods along with a wide range of exclusive brand shops in addition to Silverburn Shopping Centre. They also provide a variety of leisure and sporting facilities including tennis, rugby, bowling, equestrian and a selection of well-regarded golf courses. It also has transport links to the city centre and beyond by way of its own train station. Directions From our office on Ayr Road, Newton Mearns travel city bound to Eastwood Toll taking the third exit on the right onto the A727 Eastwoodmains Road and continue onwards through the traffic lights to Clarkston Toll, proceed onwards on Busby Road to the Sheddens roundabout, bear left on Busby Road and proceed through the village of Busby on the Main Street and continue out of Busby onto East Kilbride Road. On reaching the Peel Road roundabout turn right onto Peel Road, continue onwards and the property is on the right hand side. Brochures Brochure 1 Web Details Read more Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent Bowfell, 52 Peel Road, Thorntonhall Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Thorntonhall Station 0.1 miles Busby Station 0.8 miles Hairmyres Station 1.3 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Corum, Newton Mearns 134 Ayr Road, Newton Mearns, Glasgow, G77 6EG Experience the difference Once, estate agents were estate agents. Nowadays, they're often lawyers, mortgage brokers and letting agents too - but not at Corum. We work exclusively in estate agency, meaning we devote 100% of our time doing what our customers want: securing the best price for their property. The agency's original founding partners worked together at one of the largest estate agencies in the country, until a company takeover led to a wholesale focus on Financial Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Corum, Newton Mearns 134 Ayr Road, Newton Mearns, Glasgow, G77 6EG More properties from this agent Call agent : 0141 673 1647 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference NM4020. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Corum, Newton Mearns . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0141 673 1647 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho