Home Itinerary About Wild Pilgrims Seeking God In The Wilderness Many of us feel close to God when we are in his beautiful creation. The wilderness has always been a place where he meets with his people. Moses and the burning bush, Elijah being fed by ravens, Jesus retiring to solitary places to pray to his Father Read More We create retreats in the wilderness, away from the busyness of normal life. A true retreat from the world so that we can be with God in the beauty, awe and severity of the wilderness. No matter where we are at in the spiritual journey, we often need times to step back to reflect, to be inspired, to simply be present to God. Wilderness Our retreats are a pilgrimage in the natural wilderness and involve movement as well as stillness. They are not hikes, but some walking is involved in order to get to special places in nature for deep connection. The inner wilderness is also a place where God meets with his people even through his perceived absence – the Hebrews wandering the desert for forty years, Jesus’ desolation on the cross, the Dark Night of the Soul. Somehow in the spaciousness and emptiness of the inner or outer deserts, God is already there waiting for us, alluring us, purifying us of all our false notions that we may be for him alone. What to expect on Retreat Over the days of the retreat we will stay in simple, comfortable accommodation. Most days will begin with shared prayer, then times of solitude. There will be times of silent walking in nature, and times of sharing. The aim of the retreat is to create space so there aren’t many talks to listen to beyond sharing liturgy and being given instruction on the practices. Everyone is free to engage as little or as much with the practices as they feel is right - we are creating the space, but God will meet us all depending at where we are at. Read More Spiritual Practice The Spiritual journey is totally dependent on the grace of God, but our effort is necessary. There will be painful dimensions and dark nights, but the journey leads to a place of deep abiding union with the Lord” - Ralph Martin Spiritual practices create the framework and self discipline which enable us to open up and be more receptive to what God may be saying. A spiritual discipline cannot force the holy Spirit to move, but what it does do is allow us to be more open, and be attentive to the more subtle movements of spirit. Spiritual practices are not always easy. Just as you can’t run a marathon without putting in months of physical training, so it takes effort and resolve to train our undisciplined minds, thoughts and emotions to be under our control. They are a paradox as they come to us by grace but do require effort. The retreat will introduce you to tested ways of being present to the Divine and to the leading of the Spirit. Solitude Christ is already in that place of peace, which is all in all. He has entered into His rest. That is our home; here we are on a pilgrimage, and Christ calls us to His many mansions which He has prepared - John Henry Newman We grow up in a world of noise, and the practice of Silence is often scary and difficult for us. As soon as we switch off from our technology and retreat from external stimulation, we find that our minds are far from silent! During the retreat we will explore practices of silence, helping to bring these rampant thoughts into their correct place so that we can notice the stillness of God’s presence all around. pilgrimage Blessed are those whose strength is in you, who have set their hearts on pilgrimage - Psalm 84 The spiritual life is a journey, and thus it is with the spirit of pilgrimage that we enter this retreat. We are “saunterers” - the word came from pilgrims going to the “saint terre”, the Holy Land. We will walk through mountains, forests and valleys, and explore this very beautiful earth which is our mortal home with our five senses.With our spirits open to the journey, and our senses in contact with god’s creation, we hope to deepen our love of God the divine artist, and all of his wonderful creation. Community Christian community is the place where we keep the flame of hope alive among us and take it seriously so that it can grow and become stronger in us - Henri J. M. Nouwen A vital aspect of our retreat is that of our community – our fellow retreatants and guides. We share times of guided reading, liturgy and worship together. The aim of this is to collectively focus our attention on the Holy Spirit who is already present amongst us. We also have times of group feedback and sharing. There is no compulsion here though – it is just as valid to share one’s silence as to share one’s words. The afternoon walks are also times where you may find yourself informally chatting with others along the trail about what you are experiencing. A Prayer for the journey My Lord God, I have no idea where I am going. I do not see the road ahead of me. I cannot know for certain where it will end. Nor do I really know myself, and the fact that I think I am following Your will does not mean that I am actually doing so. But I believe that the desire to please You does in fact please You. And I hope I have that desire in all that I am doing. I hope that I will never do anything apart from that desire. And I know that, if I do this, You will lead me by the right road, though I may know nothing about it. Therefore I will trust You always though I may seem to be lost and in the shadow of death. I will not fear, for You are ever with me, and You will never leave me to face my perils alone. Amen. ~ Thomas Merton, Thoughts in Solitude COntact us Get in Touch Send Message Wild Pilgrims Wild Pilgrims creates space in the wilderness to be present to God. A true retreat from the world and the busyness, in the beauty and awe of wild nature. No matter where we are at in the spiritual journey, we often need times to step back to reflect, to be inspired, to simply be present to God. Wild Pilgrims is operated by our sister company www.wildgooseadventure.com Contact info Morocco wildpilgrims@wildgooseadventure.com +1234567890 © 2023 Wild Pilgrims | PopularFX Theme Terms & Conditions Cookies Legal Notices