Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 22 22 Harborne Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 See map Guide Price £1,695,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 03/05/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×3 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features 5 bedrooms 4 reception rooms 3 bathrooms 0.27 acres Pretty garden Stunning Grade II* listed family home Detached Patio Town/City Private Parking Property description Giles House is a most attractive Italianate detached family home, listed Grade II* for its architectural and historical importance, with original parts believed to date from circa 1855. A blue plaque also highlights its local historical interest having been the birthplace of Sir Austin Chamberlain on 16th October 1863. The property has handsome red brick faced elevations, principally set beneath a slate roof, with relief offered by stucco quoins, arched ground floor windows with stuccoed keystones, and the splendid original lead roof detail. Internally, the property also offers many fine character features, to include ornate ceiling cornices and roses, splendid fireplaces within the principal reception rooms, high ceilings and an elegant staircase with curved mahogany handrail and decorative balustrading. Planning permission has been granted for a ground floor orangery to the rear of the house (application number 2020/00913/PA), and conversion of the loft space into additional bedrooms, to provide an additional 1,500 sq. ft. of living space. This permission has now lapsed. The well laid out and well-proportioned accommodation is set over two floors and extends in all to around 4,691 sq. ft. An impressive feature porch provides a walkway to the panelled front door, with a fanlight window over, and opens into the central reception hall. The generous size 'T' shaped reception hall is flooded with natural light. Doors radiate to all of the principal reception rooms and there is a useful guest cloakroom/WC. There is a superb front drawing room and dining room, both with exposed wood floors and tall feature arched windows enjoying a southerly aspect allowing ample natural light to flood in, in addition to a fine living room to the rear, which provides a third excellent reception room. The generous fitted kitchen/breakfast room has a good range of floor and wall-mounted units with work surfaces over. There is a comprehensive range of integrated appliances including a Neff double oven/grill and microwave oven above, concealed fridge/freezer, dishwasher, and a two-oven Aga. An inner hallway provides access to the separate utility/laundry room and cellars, which provide around 600 sq. ft. of useful storage space, comprised of two main compartments. The snug/garden room has French doors out onto the rear terrace and gardens. The elegant staircase with mahogany handrail rises to the first floor landing area where all of the five double bedrooms are located. The superb principal bedroom suite is flooded with natural light. There is a well-fitted en suite bathroom with a bath and separate shower. There are a further four bedrooms along with a family bathroom. Bedrooms two and three share a Jack and Jill en suite bathroom with a separate shower. Approached directly from Harborne Road electrically operated gates open onto the cobbled front driveway which offers secure parking for several vehicles. The delightful well-maintained part walled gardens, comprise of a good size paved seating terrace directly to the rear, and central lawns flanked by well-planted mature borders, in all extending to 0.26 acres. Central Birmingham 1.3 miles, M5 (J3) 4.7 miles, Birmingham Airport/NEC 13 miles (all distances are approximate) Edgbaston is an exclusive suburb of Birmingham, rich in history and being part of one of England's largest urban conservation areas, Calthorpe Estate. Located close to the popular Harborne Village with amenities nearby including Waitrose, Marks & Spencer, Lordswood Gym and a variety of highly recommended shops, bars and restaurants. A wide range of schools for children of all ages is available in the vicinity both in the private and state sectors. They include Hallfield Preparatory School, West House School, Blue Coat School, Edgbaston High School for Girls, St George's School, The Priory School and The King Edward's Foundation Schools. Harborne Primary and Junior School is also very convenient. Recreational amenities of particular note include Edgbaston & Harborne Golf Clubs, Edgbaston Priory Lawn Tennis & Squash Club and a Sailing Club at Edgbaston Reservoir. Brochures More Details Brochure Giles House Read more Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Harborne Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Five Ways Station 0.5 miles Birmingham New Street Station 1.2 miles University Station 1.4 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Knight Frank, Birmingham 18th Floor 103 Colmore Row Birmingham B3 3AG About us We are passionate about property. Our foundations are built on supporting clients in one of the most significant decisions they'll make in their lifetime. As your partners in property, we act with integrity and are here to help you achieve the very best price for your home in the quickest possible time. We offer a range of services for your property requirements. If you are selling, buying or letting a home, or you need some frank advice and insight on the current property Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Knight Frank, Birmingham 18th Floor 103 Colmore Row Birmingham B3 3AG More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 387 6426 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference BRM012327591. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Knight Frank, Birmingham . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 387 6426 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho