08081347754 Services Business Set Up Contracts eCommerce Data & Privacy Getting Funding Employment Law View All → How it Works Fixed Fees Membership Resources About About Us Our Story Meet the Team Contact Home > Services > Franchising > Franchise Lawyer Specialist franchise lawyers Sprintlaw offers simple and affordable legal solutions for franchisees and franchisors. Get help from our online, expert franchise lawyers today. 5.0 (based on Google Reviews ) “They’ve helped us tremendously and are seriously knowledgeable and honest. Couldn’t recommend the crew at sprintlaw more!” - Amit, Soul Burger Get started We'll get back to you within 1 business day. Name * Email * Contact Number * What are you looking for help with? Checkbox * Franchising Contracts Business Set Up Other What are you looking for? Δ Proceeding confirms you agree to our Privacy Policy we do it better Affordable advice from expert franchise lawyers Whether you’re looking to franchise your business or purchase a franchise, we’re here to help. Learn more Why choose Sprintlaw? Tailored contracts & advice for franchisors and franchisees Phone consultations with our expert lawyers Fast turnarounds Fixed-fee pricing sprintlaw Franchise Lawyers Frequently asked questions How can Sprintlaw help franchisors? We can draft your Franchise Agreement, and do consults on Accidental Franchising. For more details about how we can help franchisors, get in touch with our team for a free, no-obligations chat. How can Sprintlaw help franchisees? We can do a quick review or a more in depth review of your Franchise Agreement and associated documents. Get in touch with our team for a free chat about the best legal set up for you as a franchisee, and we’ll guide you through your options. Who are your lawyers and where are you based? Our team is made up of experienced lawyers, who are specialists in various areas of law. Many of our team have trained at leading law firms and left the traditional corporate law world to join us on our mission to create a new and better way of delivering legal services. Our team has expertise in all areas of startup law, including technology law, intellectual property law, contract drafting and review, corporate law and commercial law. Our use of technology allows our team members to work remotely from around the world, including the UK and Australia. We generally work with our clients entirely online and over the phone. Our UK team often work out of Flow Space co-working spaces in London. Are you a law firm? How do you work? Sprintlaw is a new type of a legal practice called a ‘legal consultancy.’ This is a new, innovative model of practice which has been available since 25 November 2019 when the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA) rolled out certain regulatory reforms in England and Wales. You can read more about legal consultancies in our ‘FAQs’ page, here . To work with us, just submit an enquiry through the site. After you’ve submitted an enquiry, one of our legal project managers will review your enquiry within 1 business day and get in touch to get a better idea of exactly what you are looking for. Then your legal project manager will send through an email with a bit more information about the services you need, along with a fixed-fee quote setting out costs, scope of the service and timing. Have a read through it, and if you’re happy with the scope, you can accept and sign our engagement letter online – easy! Once you’ve formally accepted, we’ll connect you with one of our lawyers and they will work with you to complete your project over email, phone and/or video chat – whatever you’d prefer why sprintlaw Access affordable legal services online. We’re an award-winning, totally online law firm. Forget the hassle of meeting a lawyer face-to-face. Our top-trained lawyers are ready to help wherever you are. how it works our team Expert lawyers, just a click away Our lawyers were recruited from top law firms and use our custom-built technology to provide a better and more affordable legal service. Alex Commercial Contracts Lawyer Tomo Corporate Specialist Lawyer Amelia Intellectual Property Lawyer how it works 1 / Get a free quote Our legally trained consultants will prepare a fixed-fee quote for you. 2 / Accept online Accept your fixed-fee quote and e-sign our engagement letter. 3 / Speak with a lawyer Our expert lawyers will talk you through your project via phone, video call or whatever suits! That's it! Receive your completed project, usually within 5 - 10 working days. We've helped over 40,000 businesses We help businesses across all industries – from tech startups in London to cafés in Cardiff. Read our Google reviews. Alex Adapt Leadership “Can't speak highly enough of my experience with Sprintlaw - quality advice, fast and efficient responsiveness and a professional product.” Emmy Kiindred “I had a fantastic experience with Sprintlaw - it was easy, cost-effective and their lawyers provided very high quality advice. I could tell they really cared about my business.” Amit Soul Burger “They’ve helped us tremendously and are seriously knowledgeable and honest. Couldn’t recommend the crew at Sprintlaw more!” Your legals made easy Enquire now Call us 08081347754 Business legals, made simple 200+ 5 Star Reviews SERVICES Business Set Up Contracts eCommerce Employment Law Getting Funding View All → ABOUT Our Story Contact Fixed Fees Media & Awards Careers Partners RESOURCES Articles FAQ Sitemap Get Started SPRINTLAW AU SPRINTLAW UK SPRINTLAW NZ © Sprintlaw is the trading name of Sprintlaw (UK) Ltd, registered in the United Kingdom under no. 12872061. Our registered office address is: 2 Manor Farm Court Old Wolverton Road, Old Wolverton, Milton Keynes, England, MK12 5NN. We are a legal consultancy, not a law firm, and are not authorised or regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority - read more about this here . Use of sprintlaw.co.uk is subject to our Terms and Conditions , Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy . Top × Hi there! You're visiting Sprintlaw . Would you like to switch to Sprintlaw ? YES, TAKE ME TO THE SITE NO, STAY ON SITE