Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 34 2 34 2 Laverockdale House, Dreghorn Loan, Colinton, Edinburgh, EH13 See map Offers Over £2,950,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 21/04/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Semi-Detached BEDROOMS ×6 BATHROOMS ×4 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features One of Lorimer's finest houses Bright, spacious and beautifully presented family home Set in immaculately landscaped, private and secure grounds with gardens, woodland, kitchen garden, garaging and parking Positioned on the edge of Colinton Village with exceptional vistas of the Pentland Hills Superb family living and reception space incorporating a blend of modern fixtures and fittings with a range of fine period features Easy access both in and out of town EPC Rating = E Property description An historic A Listed Lorimer house of great distinction. Description A truly outstanding property of historic significance, Category A listed Laverockdale House was designed by Sir Robert Lorimer for famous Edinburgh financier James Ivory and is one of the finest executions of a small country house of the Arts and Crafts era by Lorimer. Completed in 1912, it was his largest commission in Colinton. Standing in the foothills of the Pentlands, just south of Colinton village, the house was designed in the Scots Baronial style of a 17th Century Tower House but on a reduced scale; strongly reflective of Kellie Castle in Fife which was Lorimer’s childhood home. The original design brief from James Ivory included a desire for a traditional Scottish house in a waterside setting with the feel of a country seat but within very easy reach of central Edinburgh and without the burden of a large estate; it also had to be enclosed by lawns and ornamental gardens. The latest construction methods and finest quality traditional building materials were used in the execution of the property, with all modern conveniences of the day included to create an impressive, comfortable and manageable family home. The gardens have been painstakingly restored to Lorimer’s original plan and vision with the contemporary addition of sloping curves to the lower lawn inspired by Charles Jencks’ Landform sculpture at the Scottish National Gallery of Modern Art. These attractive slopes overlook the stunning stream, waterfalls, bridges, sun-trap terraces and spectacular island planting of the restored fernery. The floodlit garden to the rear further boasts outstanding views of the Pentland Hills, three separate terraces in different locations designed to accommodate the moving sun, a large heated greenhouse, raised beds within a charming vegetable garden and an enchanting children’s play area. The beautifully laid out front garden is bordered by ornamental planting and incorporates a large driveway, central lawn and triple bay heated garage with workbench. The property sits within an exclusive gated residential setting and benefits from both the privacy and security afforded by two sets of electric gates, CCTV and substantial security fencing and the comfort and community feeling offered by the neighbouring properties. Location Laverockdale House is situated in the much sought-after area of Colinton, just a little over three miles south-west of Edinburgh city centre. The historic village is charming, with small speciality shops, a Co-op store, popular restaurants, two local churches, and a tennis club. The Water of Leith walkway and cycle path are easily accessible as are the paths through the spectacular Pentland Hills. The area is also well catered for in terms of superstores, with Tesco, Sainsbury’s and Morrisons all within easy reach. The area is well served with local schooling at Bonaly Primary and Firhill High school while private schooling is available nearby at Merchiston Castle school and George Watson’s College. Laverockdale offers easy access to the main arterial routes serving the City centre, the airport and Central Scotland’s motorway network. Edinburgh’s extensive bus service close by also offers easy access to the city centre, with its business and financial districts, extensive and varied shopping, restaurants and bars; a host of internationally acclaimed art galleries, museums and historic attractions. The designer stores of Multrees Walk, the John Lewis department store and the new St James Quarter retail, leisure and residential development, can all be found in central Edinburgh along with high street stores and many independent boutiques. Square Footage: 6,407 sq ft Additional Info Ground Floor - An impressive carved stone entrance with stunning original oak wooden door leads to the vestibule. The welcoming and bright hallway gives access to an oak panelled cloakroom with WC and ample storage for coats and shoes. An imposing mahogany banister and original oak flooring add to the grandeur of the hall which includes an attractive panelled dining hall complete with original fireplace and glazed door overlooking the gardens to the rear and the Pentland Hills beyond. Storage is cleverly hidden behind the dining hall panelling and a substantial cupboard sits beneath the stairs. The bright and stylish Clive Christian dining kitchen has stunning views over the garden and includes a 5 burner Rangemaster, integrated appliances and Amtico flooring. A substantial and fully fitted utility room and larder adjoin the kitchen with the added benefit of a door to the garden and a ceiling-mounted pulley. The cosy panelled sitting room retains the original fire surround but with the benefit of an attractive gas fire. Large sash windows bathe this room in light and the breath-taking views over the garden make this a particularly attractive room for relaxing in. Traditional fitted bookcases running the length of one wall provide scale and storage. The substantial Conservatory, accessed from either the sitting or drawing room, is a relatively modern addition and was built in hard-wearing Baltic wood. This stunning room provides an excellent relaxing or entertaining space with spectacular views over the garden and access to the upper sun terrace. The hallway to the West of the house leads to the formal panelled drawing room which is bright, spacious and impeccably designed in a contemporary, classical style. The large picture window with views to the garden and hills beyond is a particular feature of this impressive room, as is the imposing wood and stone fire surround and wood burning effect gas stove. A secret door within the panelling leads to a fully fitted Technogym with a door onto the garden. Within this area there is also a staircase leading to a cosy library with original oak flooring, full height oak shelving, a balcony overlooking the front garden and an attractive gas stove. In addition, this area also incorporates a large and bright professional home office, fully fitted with bespoke Vitra office furniture and extensive dual full fibre internet and phone connections. A small w/c and sink is found adjacent to the office and a deep cupboard provides useful storage for files. First Floor - The impressive staircase rises to a galleried landing where one ensuite double bedroom and the striking principal bedroom suite are situated. The stylish double bedroom is large and bright with 3 sash windows overlooking the gardens, ample storage and a stunning Art Deco bathroom. The master bedroom includes the original fireplace and benefits from breath taking views over the gardens and to the Pentland Hills beyond. A spacious and bright room, the décor is contemporary classic in style. The master en suite includes a substantial corner bath and separate shower, hardwood flooring, ample storage and a large sash window. This impressive suite also includes his and her dressing rooms, both fully fitted and with large windows and a concealed safe. The hallway also provides a deep, shelved storage cupboard and access to the internal staircase leading to the Tower area of the house. Second Floor - The bright Tower staircase benefits from a large window and leads to a delightful large sitting area with generous storage cupboards at either side, four further double bedrooms, a bathroom with bath and shower over and a charming study hole with a fitted desk and shelving above. Outside Space - Substantial front and rear gardens with breath taking features and views. Heated triple garage with workbench and water. Heated greenhouse. Two large garden stores, one fully heated. Planning Permission - The current owners have successfully gained planning permission for an extension to the south of the house, incorporating a swimming pool and gym. Full details can be sought from the selling agent. Listing - The property is Category A listed and lies within the Colinton Conservation Area Fixtures & Fittings - to be agreed Brochures Web Details Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Rating Graph Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Laverockdale House, Dreghorn Loan, Colinton, Edinburgh, EH13 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Kingsknowe Station 1.3 miles Wester Hailes Station 1.5 miles Slateford Station 1.7 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Savills, Edinburgh Wemyss House 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise span the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa, and the Middle East. Our scale gives us wide-ranging specialist and local knowledge, and we take pride in providing best-in-class advice as we help individuals, businesses and institutions make better property decisions. Outstanding property We have been advising on Read more More properties from this agent Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Savills, Edinburgh Wemyss House 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH More properties from this agent Call agent : 0131 381 1711 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference EDT230171. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Savills, Edinburgh . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0131 381 1711 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho