Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 41 1 41 1 Fairfield Place, Bothwell, Glasgow See map Offers Over £1,350,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 26/04/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×5 SIZE 5,221 sq. ft. (485 sq. m.) TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Substantial detached villa Five bedrooms Four en-suite shower rooms Amazing views Great privacy Large plot Close to local schooling Close to Bothwell Main Street Balcony to rear Property description This beautifully finished large detached villa was designed and commissioned by the current owners and enjoys a lovely private and secluded setting within the heart of Bothwell. The home has an impressive sweeping oak staircase over the three levels, whilst additional features include solid oak doors and skirtings, modern luxury sanitary ware within the bathrooms and en-suites and an impressive kitchen has been installed along with a range of high end integrated appliances. As you would expect, there is a modern gas central heating system, double glazing, CCTV security, an alarm and electric gates for additional privacy. The accommodation comprises a large reception entrance, a formal lounge with dining area, a spacious dining kitchen with a centre island and access to rear balcony, open plan to a family area with fabulous views over Laighlands fields, an office, cloakroom and a wc. The upper floor contains four double bedrooms, 3 x en-suites and a further four-piece family bathroom. On the lower level is a guest room with an en-suite shower room, a utility room, a sitting room, a drying room/storage, which then gives access to the expansive rear garden. The gardens have been thoughtfully landscaped around the property, with a mono-block driveway providing space for many cars. There are lawns to the rear of the house which incorporate shrubs, bedding areas, patios and trees with a fabulous stone stair separating the levels. You will also find practice golf room that has been built in the rear garden. The village of Bothwell is highly regarded for its excellent Main Street, where you can find the majority of everyday shopping needs and an excellent selection of restaurants, bistros and pubs. There are excellent schools nearby as well as Hamilton College and for those commuting by public transport there are regular bus and train services from Uddingston to the surrounding towns and cities, including Glasgow and Edinburgh. Council Tax Band - This beautifully finished large detached villa was designed and commissioned by the current owners and enjoys a lovely private and secluded setting within the heart of Bothwell. Brochures Brochure - 18A Fairfield Place, Bothwell, G71 8RP. Brochure Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EE Rating EI Rating Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Fairfield Place, Bothwell, Glasgow Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Blantyre Station 1.0 miles Hamilton West Station 1.7 miles Uddingston Station 1.7 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Residence Estate Agents, Uddingston 61-63 Main Street, Uddingston, Glasgow, G71 7EP At Residence Estate Agents, our business isn't driven by numbers, it's driven by people. We value service excellence over volume, and quality rather than quantity. We are solely focused on selling homes and our locally based front-of-house directors and co-owners of the business, get to know each and every client from the initial consultation through to completion. More properties from this agent Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Residence Estate Agents, Uddingston 61-63 Main Street, Uddingston, Glasgow, G71 7EP More properties from this agent Call agent : 01698 537946 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 32282015. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Residence Estate Agents, Uddingston . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 01698 537946 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho