Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 5 5 NEW HOME Key Hill Apartments See map Guide Price £1,500,000 PROPERTY TYPE Land Key features Development Opportunity Jewellery Quarter Location Residential & Commercial Full planning approved Property description DESCRIPTION A new build site largely replacing the existing workshops adjacent to the handsome listed Gem Building , which is shortly to be refurbished as loft apartments. Planning has been granted for 36 one, two and three bedroom residential apartments with a GIA circa 22,216 Sq Ft (2064 Sq m) plus two ground floor commercial units comprising 6,330 Sq Ft (588 Sq m) Schedule available upon request. LOCATION The site sits on the edge of the Jewellery Quarter with an open aspect over the historic tree lined Key Hill Cemetery. There is good access into all of the amenities in the JQ. There are easy links to the national motorway network, with excellent access to Birmingham International Airport and The National Exhibition Centre. The A38 Aston Expressway is only around half a mile away and leads directly onto Junction 6 of the M6 which is itself only some 3.5 miles distant. Public transport by road and rail is also most convenient. Major bus routes into and out of the city centre can be picked up nearby. The Jewellery Quarter train/tram station is a three minute walk away TERMS Unconditional offers are encouraged in the region of £1,500,000 subject to contract LEGAL COSTS Each party to be responsible for their own legal costs MONEY LAUNDERING The money laundering regulations require identification checks to be undertaken by all parties purchasing or letting properties. We will therefore be requesting proof of identification for all the parties involved in the transaction. Brochures (Liberty) 2 Page ... Read more Key Hill Apartments Approximate location Open map Street View NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Jewellery Quarter Tram Stop 0.1 miles St. Paul's Tram Stop 0.5 miles Birmingham Snow Hill Tram Stop 0.7 miles About the agent Maguire Jackson, Birmingham 33 George Street Birmingham, B3 1QG Leading Estate Agents in Birmingham Maguire Jackson are one of the leading Birmingham estate agents. We have three City Centre offices we specialise in arranging residential property sales and lettings in prime locations in the city in addition to commercial sales, lettings and acquisitions in the city fringe and Jewellery Quarter area. Client Experience As leading letting agents in Birmingham, we keep our finger on the pulse of potential and new development in all m Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Maguire Jackson, Birmingham 33 George Street Birmingham, B3 1QG More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 387 6401 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 103430006851. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Maguire Jackson, Birmingham . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 387 6401 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho