Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History 2 Etymology 3 Ensembles Toggle Ensembles subsection 3.1 Scottish, with cello 3.2 Balkan, with kontra 4 Styles Toggle Styles subsection 4.1 Europe 4.1.1 Great Britain 4.1.2 Ireland 4.1.3 Nordic countries 4.1.4 Continental Europe 4.2 Americas 4.2.1 United States 4.2.1.1 Traditional 4.2.1.2 Modern 4.2.2 Canada 4.2.3 Mexico 4.2.4 South America 4.3 Africa, Asia and Australia 5 Related instruments Toggle Related instruments subsection 5.1 Variants 5.2 Near relations 5.3 Distant relations 6 See also 7 References Toggle References subsection 7.1 Citations 7.2 Sources 8 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Fiddle 14 languages Ænglisc Deutsch Español فارسی Français Gaeilge 한국어 Հայերեն Nederlands 日本語 Plattdüütsch Português Русский Simple English Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiquote From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Bowed string instrument This article is about the musical instrument and its playing styles. For the Indian film, see Fiddle (film) . "Fiddler" redirects here. For other uses, see Fiddler (disambiguation) . Fiddle A fiddler playing a fiddle. String instrument Other names Violin Classification Bowed string instrument Hornbostel–Sachs classification 321.322-71 Developed Early 16th century Playing range Related instruments Violin family ( viola , cello ) Viol family (includes double bass ) Musicians List of fiddlers Builders Luthiers Part of a series on Violin Violinists Fiddle Fiddlers History Musical styles Technique Acoustics Construction Making and maintenance Luthiers Family v t e A fiddle is a bowed string musical instrument , most often a violin . [1] It is a colloquial term for the violin, used by players in all genres, including classical music . Although in many cases violins and fiddles are essentially synonymous, the style of the music played may determine specific construction differences between fiddles and classical violins. For example, fiddles may optionally be set up with a bridge with a flatter arch to reduce the range of bow-arm motion needed for techniques such as the double shuffle, a form of bariolage involving rapid alternation between pairs of adjacent strings. [2] To produce a "brighter" tone than the deep tones of gut or synthetic core strings, fiddlers often use steel strings. The fiddle is part of many traditional ( folk ) styles, which are typically aural traditions —taught " by ear " rather than via written music. [3] Fiddling is the act of playing the fiddle, and fiddlers are musicians that play it. Among musical styles, fiddling tends to produce rhythms that focus on dancing, with associated quick note changes, whereas classical music tends to contain more vibrato and sustained notes. Fiddling is also open to improvisation and embellishment with ornamentation at the player's discretion, in contrast to orchestral performances, which adhere to the composer's notes to reproduce a work faithfully. It is less common for a classically trained violinist to play folk music, but today, many fiddlers (e.g., Alasdair Fraser , Brittany Haas , and Alison Krauss [4] ) have classical training. History [ edit ] The medieval fiddle emerged in 10th-century Europe, deriving from the Byzantine lira ( Ancient Greek : λύρα , Latin : lira , English: lyre ), a bowed string instrument of the Byzantine Empire and ancestor of most European bowed instruments. [5] [6] The first recorded reference to the bowed lira was in the 9th century by the Persian geographer Ibn Khurradadhbih (d. 911); in his lexicographical discussion of instruments he cited the lira (lūrā) as a typical instrument of the Byzantines and equivalent to the rabāb played in the Islamic Empires. [7] Lira spread widely westward to Europe; in the 11th and 12th centuries European writers use the terms fiddle and lira interchangeably when referring to bowed instruments. [5] West African fiddlers have accompanied singing and dancing with one-string gourd fiddles since the twelfth century [ citation needed ] , and many black musicians in America learned on similar homemade fiddles before switching over to the European violin [ citation needed ] . As early as the mid-1600s, black fiddlers ("exquisite performers on three-stringed fiddles") were playing for both black and white dancers at street celebrations in the Dutch settlement of New Amsterdam (New York City), and by 1690 slave fiddlers were routinely providing the music at plantation balls in Virginia. [8] Over the centuries, Europe continued to have two distinct types of fiddles: one, relatively square-shaped, held in the arms, became known as the viola da braccio ( arm viol ) family and evolved into the violin; the other, with sloping shoulders and held between the knees, was the viola da gamba ( leg viol ) group. During the Renaissance the gambas were important and elegant instruments; they eventually lost ground to the louder (and originally less aristocratic) viola da braccio family. [9] Etymology [ edit ] The etymology of fiddle is uncertain: it probably derives from the Latin fidula , which is the early word for violin , or it may be natively Germanic. [10] The name appears to be related to Icelandic Fiðla and also Old English fiðele . [11] A native Germanic ancestor of fiddle might even be the ancestor of the early Romance form of violin . [12] In medieval times, fiddle also referred to a predecessor of today's violin. Like the violin, it tended to have four strings, but came in a variety of shapes and sizes. Another family of instruments that contributed to the development of the modern fiddle are the viols , which are held between the legs and played vertically, and have fretted fingerboards. [13] Ensembles [ edit ] Fiddlers participating in a session at a pub in Ireland In performance, a solo fiddler, or one or two with a group of other instrumentalists, is the norm, though twin fiddling is represented in some North American, Scandinavian, Scottish and Irish styles. Following the folk revivals of the second half of the 20th century, it became common for less formal situations to find large groups of fiddlers playing together—see for example the Calgary Fiddlers, Swedish Spelmanslag folk-musician clubs, and the worldwide phenomenon of Irish sessions . [14] [15] Orchestral violins, on the other hand, are commonly grouped in sections, or "chairs" . These contrasting traditions may be vestiges of historical performance settings: large concert halls where violins were played required more instruments, before electronic amplification, than did more intimate dance halls and houses that fiddlers played in. The difference was likely compounded by the different sounds expected of violin music and fiddle music. Historically, the majority of fiddle music was dance music, [3] while violin music had either grown out of dance music or was something else entirely. Violin music came to value a smoothness that fiddling, with its dance-driven clear beat, did not always follow. In situations that required greater volume, a fiddler (as long as they kept the beat) could push their instrument harder than could a violinist. [ citation needed ] Various fiddle traditions have differing values. Scottish, with cello [ edit ] In the very late 20th century, a few artists have successfully attempted a reconstruction of the Scottish tradition of violin and "big fiddle", or cello. Notable recorded examples include Iain Fraser and Christine Hanson, Amelia Kaminski and Christine Hanson's Bonnie Lasses, [16] Alasdair Fraser and Natalie Haas ' Fire and Grace, [17] and Tim Macdonald and Jeremy Ward's The Wilds . [18] Balkan, with kontra [ edit ] Hungarian, Slovenian, and Romanian fiddle players are often accompanied by a three-stringed variant of the viola —known as the kontra —and by double bass , with cimbalom and clarinet being less standard yet still common additions to a band. In Hungary, a three-stringed viola variant with a flat bridge, called the kontra or háromhúros brácsa makes up part of a traditional rhythm section in Hungarian folk music. The flat bridge lets the musician play three-string chords. A three-stringed double bass variant is also used. Styles [ edit ] To a greater extent than classical violin playing, fiddle playing is characterized by a huge variety of ethnic or folk music traditions, each of which has its own distinctive sound. Europe [ edit ] Great Britain [ edit ] English folk music fiddling, including Northumbrian fiddle style, which features "seconding", an improvised harmony part played by a second fiddler. Lakeland or Cumbrian fiddling has a repertoire largely based upon hornpipes but also incorporates reels and jigs. [19] Scottish fiddling , including: Shetland fiddling, which includes trowie tunes said to come from peerie folk . The style is characterised by "ringing strings" and syncopated rhythms. A North East (particularly Aberdeenshire and Moray ) tradition strongly influenced by baroque violin technique with staccato and Scotch snap bowing techniques and double stops . A Scottish Borders tradition with a repertoire heavy in hornpipes and with heavy use of double stops . A Highland tradition, highly influenced by the ornamentation and mixolydian scale of the Great Highland Bagpipe , as well as smoother bowing than other Scottish fiddle styles and a swinging of the 6/8 jig rhythm. A West Highland and Hebridean Tradition, very closely related to the Highland tradition with major influence from the Gaelic song tradition. An Orkney tradition with simpler bowing and ornamentation but with tunes featuring accidentals . [20] Welsh fiddling (Welsh Ffidil ; see Ar Log ), a recently revived tradition. Ireland [ edit ] Irish folk music fiddling including: Donegal fiddling from the northwest in Ulster , which features mazurkas and a Scottish-influenced repertoire including Strathspey and Highland Fling dances. Fiddlers tend to play fast and make heavy use of staccato bowing and may from time to time "play the bass", meaning a second fiddler may play a melody an octave below where a first fiddler is playing it. Sligo fiddling from northern Connacht , which like Donegal fiddling tends to be fast, but with a bouncier feel to the bowing. Galway fiddling southern Connacht , which is slower than Sligo or Donegal traditions, with a heavier emphasis on ornamentation. Tunes are occasionally played in Eb or Bb to match the tonality of flat pipes. Clare fiddling from northern Munster , which tends to be played near the slower Galway tempo yet with a greater emphasis on the melody itself rather than ornamentation. Sliabh Luachra fiddling from the southwest in Munster , characterized by a unique repertoire of polkas and slides , the use of double stops and drones , as well as playing the melody in two octaves as in Donegal. [21] Nordic countries [ edit ] Norwegian fiddling (including Hardanger fiddling; see also Bygdedans and Gammaldans ), including traditions from: Røros and Nord-Noreg styles, both using the standard fiddle. Finnskogen , using the standard fiddle, but featuring some flatted notes influenced by Finnish folk music. Voss and Telemark styles, both using the Hardanger fiddle . Setesdal , which uses both standard and Hardanger fiddles. Swedish fiddling (including Låtfiol playing; see also Spelmanslag and Gammaldans ), including traditions from: Jämtland Dalarna Finnish fiddling , including the regional styles of: Kaustinen Ostrobothnia , heavily influenced by Swedish fiddling. Continental Europe [ edit ] Klezmer fiddlers at a wedding, Ukraine, ca. 1925 Austrian fiddling French fiddling , including an old tradition from Corrèze and a revived one from Brittany Hungarian folk music traditions Italian fiddling [22] Klezmer fiddling [23] Polish fiddling Mainland Portuguese and Azorean fiddling Romanian fiddling [24] Americas [ edit ] United States [ edit ] Peter Stampfel from The Holy Modal Rounders American fiddling , a broad category including traditional and modern styles Traditional [ edit ] Blues fiddling Cajun and Zydeco fiddling Native American fiddling, including: Cherokee [3] Creek [3] Tohono O'odham waila music , a style heavily influenced by Mexican fiddling [25] and featuring irregular counts and harmonies in thirds, fourths, and sixths. [ citation needed ] Old time fiddling, including: Fiddling from Appalachia , the most well-known style today, featuring heavy use of droning and double-stops as well as syncopated bowing patterns. Athabaskan fiddling of the Interior Alaska. Midwestern fiddling, highly influenced by Scandinavian music . Ozarks fiddling, faster and crisper bowing than Appalachia. Texas fiddling, with influences from Mexican fiddling and an emphasis on competitive playing. Bluegrass fiddler Kenny Baker New England fiddling, with strong influences from Québécois / French Canadian and British repertoires. Northwest fiddling, with influences from both Ozark and Midwestern fiddle styles, though with a strong emphasis on competitive playing like Texas fiddling. Modern [ edit ] Bluegrass fiddling Country fiddling Western swing style fiddling [26] Canada [ edit ] Fiddling remains popular in Canada , and the various homegrown styles of Canadian fiddling are seen as an important part of the country's cultural identity, as celebrated during the opening ceremony of the Vancouver 2010 Winter Olympics . Cape Breton fiddling , with a distinct Scottish influence French Canadian fiddling including " crooked tunes ", that is, tunes with irregular beat patterns. Métis fiddling , of central and western Canada featuring strong French Canadian influence, but with even more "crooked" tunes. [27] Newfoundland fiddling Maritimes , Acadian or Downeast style of fiddling, which has many similarities to Cape Breton fiddling English Canadian fiddling or Anglo-Canadian fiddling Mexico [ edit ] Silvestre Vargas (1901-1985), fiddler of the Mariachi Vargas from 1921 to 1975, director from 1931 to 1955 Mexican fiddling includes Danza indígena Mariachi Son arribeño Son calentano Son huasteco Son planeco Violín-tambora Violín tuxtleco Violín mixteco South America [ edit ] Forró , a type of music from Brazil, including the rabeca fiddle tradition Peruvian violin Africa, Asia and Australia [ edit ] African fiddle Australian folk music traditions Huqin Chinese fiddles Morna fiddling from Cape Verde Indian fiddle Indian classical music Related instruments [ edit ] Variants [ edit ] Chasi, a Warm Springs Apache musician, playing the Apache fiddle, 1886 [28] Hardanger fiddle Stroh violin or phonofiddle, known in Romanian as Vioara cu goarnă . Near relations [ edit ] Cello Double bass Kontra Låtfiol Rebec Rabeca Viola Distant relations [ edit ] A nyckelharpa being played Apache fiddle Byzantine lyra , the medieval bowed instrument of the Byzantine Empire Cretan Lyra Crwth Gadulka Gudok Gusle Hurdy-gurdy also known as the wheel fiddle Kamancheh Lijerica Nyckelharpa Rebab See also [ edit ] Music portal Fleadh Cheoil List of All-Ireland Champions List of fiddlers Jazz violin References [ edit ] Citations [ edit ] ^ Gyles, Mary Francis (January 1947). "Nero Fiddled While Rome Burned". The Classical Journal . 42 (4): 211–17. JSTOR 3291751 . ^ Reiner, David; Anick, Peter (1989). Mel Bay's Old-Time Fiddling Across America . Mel Bay Publications, Inc. p. 37. ISBN 978-0-7866-5381-2 . Double shuffle: syncopated string crossing on a chord, with the top note changing. ^ a b c d Harris, Rodger (2009). "Fiddling" . Okhistory.org . The Encyclopedia of Oklahoma History and Culture . Retrieved 2017-04-07 . ^ "Alison Krauss - The bluegrass rose blooms | No Depression" . 29 December 2016. Archived from the original on 2016-12-29 . Retrieved 21 April 2021 . ^ a b "fiddle." Encyclopædia Britannica . 2009. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. 6 March 2009. ^ Anthony Baines: The Oxford Companion to Musical Instruments . Oxford University Press , USA (November 12, 1992). ^ Margaret J. Kartomi: On Concepts and Classifications of Musical Instruments. Chicago Studies in Ethnomusicology, University of Chicago Press, 1990 p. 124. ^ Phil Jamison: Hoedowns, Reels, and Frolics. University of Illinois Press, 2015 p. 45. ^ "Stringed instrument" . Encyclopedia Britannica . Retrieved 21 April 2021 . ^ "fiddle, n." . Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd ed . Oxford University Press. 1989 . Retrieved 2008-03-28 . (as access to the OED online is not free, the relevant excerpt is provided) "The ultimate origin is obscure. The [ Teutonic ] word bears a singular resemblance in sound to its [ medieval Latin ] synonym vitula , vidula , whence [ Old French ] viole , Pr. viula, and (by adoption from these [languages]) [ Italian ], [ Spanish ], [ Portuguese ] viola : see [ viol ]. The supposition that the early [ Romance ] vidula was adopted independently in more than one [Teutonic language] would account adequately for all the [Teutonic] forms; on the other hand, *fiÞulôn- may be an [ Old Teutonic ] word of native etymology, although no satisfactory [Teutonic] derivation has been found." ^ "Bosworth and Toller" . Web.ff.cuni.cz . Retrieved 2012-04-30 . ^ Mario Pei , The Story of the English Language (New York: Simon and Schuster, 1967), p. 109. ^ Weinfield, Author: Elizabeth. "The Viol | Essay | Heilbrunn Timeline of Art History | The Metropolitan Museum of Art" . The Met’s Heilbrunn Timeline of Art History . Retrieved 2018-04-09 . {{ cite web }} : |first= has generic name ( help ) ^ "The Session: Sessions" . Retrieved 28 August 2006 . ^ Webster, Andy (16 March 2012). "Traditional Irish Music in New York City" . The New York Times . Retrieved 6 February 2018 . ^ "Amelia Kaminski Productions" . Willockandsaxgallery.com. Archived from the original on 2011-11-12 . Retrieved 2011-11-14 . ^ "Fire & Grace" . Culburnie.com . Retrieved 2011-11-14 . ^ "The Wilds" . Tim Macdonald and Jeremy Ward. 2017-11-15 . Retrieved 2018-08-24 . ^ Gilchrist, Anne Geddes. "Some Old Lake Country Fiddlers and their Tune Books" . ^ Joseph Lyons. "Scottish Fiddle Music" . Scotlandsmusic.com. Archived from the original on 2012-04-19 . Retrieved 2012-04-30 . ^ "Regional Irish Fiddle Styles" . Irishfiddle.com. Archived from the original on 2012-04-23 . Retrieved 2012-04-30 . ^ "Middle Eastern and Mediterranean Fiddle" . Fiddlingaround.co.uk . Retrieved 2011-11-14 . ^ "Klezmer Fiddle" . Fiddlingaround.co.uk . Retrieved 2011-11-14 . ^ "East European and Gypsy Fiddle" . Fiddlingaround.co.uk . Retrieved 2011-11-14 . ^ "Gu-Achi Fiddlers - Old Time O'odham Fiddle Music (CR-8082)" . Store.canyonrecords.com. Archived from the original on 2012-08-03 . Retrieved 2012-08-03 . ^ "Western Swing Fiddle" . Fiddlingaround.co.uk . Retrieved 2011-11-14 . ^ "Jackson School of International Studies - Canadian Studies Center" . Jsis.washington.edu. Archived from the original on 2013-10-23 . Retrieved 2012-08-03 . ^ "Portrait of Chasi, Bonito's Son..." National Anthropological Archives. (retrieved 11 June 2010) Sources [ edit ] The Fiddle Book , by Marion Thede, (1970), Oak Publications. ISBN 0-8256-0145-2 . The Fiddler's Fakebook , by David Brody, (1983), Oak Publications. US ISBN 0-8256-0238-6 ; UK ISBN 0-7119-0309-3 . Oldtime Fiddling Across America , by David Reiner and Peter Anick (1989), Mel Bay Publications. ISBN 0-87166-766-5 . Has transcriptions (standard notation) and analysis of tunes from multiple regional and ethnic styles. The Portland Collection , by Susan Songer, (1997), ISBN 0-9657476-0-3 (Vol. 2 ISBN 0-9657476-1-1 ) North American Fiddle Music: a research and information guide by Drew Beisswenger (2011) Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-99454-5 External links [ edit ] This article's use of external links may not follow Wikipedia's policies or guidelines . Please improve this article by removing excessive or inappropriate external links, and converting useful links where appropriate into footnote references . ( November 2017 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) Fiddle at Wikipedia's sister projects Definitions from Wiktionary Media from Commons Quotations from Wikiquote Texts from Wikisource Textbooks from Wikibooks Resources from Wikiversity Data from Wikidata Faroese fiddling The Fiddler's Companion , an encyclopedia of historical notes on tunes from British, Celtic, and American traditions Differences between fiddle and violin Polish Fiddles - mazanki , złóbcoki Złóbcoki (fiddles) - “Instruments with Soul” documentary Violoneux.fr , background information on fiddlers of different French regions in the nineteenth and early twentieth century. In French. v t e Bluegrass music Typical instruments Guitar acoustic resonator Banjo Double bass Fiddle technique Mandolin resonator technique Stylistic origins Blues Country music Jazz Old-time music Sub- and fusion genres Traditional bluegrass Czech bluegrass Notable festivals High Sierra Music Festival Festival of the Bluegrass Merlefest Podunk Bluegrass Festival Telluride Bluegrass Festival Tottenham Bluegrass Festival List of bluegrass music festivals Notable performers List of bluegrass musicians List of bluegrass bands List of bluegrass mandolinists Other International Bluegrass Music Museum International Bluegrass Music Association International Bluegrass Music Hall of Fame Bluegrass Unlimited magazine Central Canadian Bluegrass Awards International Bluegrass Music Awards Category Portal v t e Irish music General Cèilidh Irish traditional music Irish dance Music of Ireland Sean-nós dance Set dance Folk song Sean-nós singing Traditional Irish singing Lilting Instruments Accordion Bodhrán Bones Bouzouki Concertina Fiddle Flute Hammered dulcimer Harp Lambeg Melodeon Tenor banjo Tin whistle Uilleann pipes Tune types 2 4 dances Polka 2 2 and 4 4 dances Barn dance Fling Highland Hornpipe Reel Strathspey Schottische 3 4 dances Mazurka Waltz 6 8 dances Single and double jigs 9 8 dances Hop and slip jigs 12 8 dances Slide Non-dance tunes Marches and airs which exist in various meters. Scales Aeolian mode Dorian mode Ionian mode Mixolydian mode Pentatonic scale Relations Cape Breton fiddling English folk music Scottish folk music Competitions Fleadh Cheoil na hÉireann Oireachtas na Gaeilge Music Awards Gradam Ceoil TG4 RTÉ Radio 1 Folk Awards Authority control MusicBrainz instrument Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fiddle&oldid=1156791638 " Categories : Cajun musical instruments Celtic musical instruments Czech musical instruments English musical instruments American musical instruments Fiddles Irish musical instruments Scottish musical instruments Welsh musical instruments Violins Hidden categories: CS1 errors: generic name Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles containing Ancient Greek (to 1453)-language text Articles containing Latin-language text Articles containing explicitly cited English-language text All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from July 2022 Articles with unsourced statements from April 2023 Articles with unsourced statements from January 2013 Articles with unsourced statements from June 2013 Wikipedia external links cleanup from November 2017 Wikipedia spam cleanup from November 2017 Pages using Sister project links with hidden wikidata Pages using Sister project links with default search Articles with MusicBrainz instrument identifiers This page was last edited on 24 May 2023, at 16:52 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement Toggle limited content width