LANGUAGE TRANSLATOR GAMES SCHOOLS BLOG RESOURCES More English English French German Italian Spanish Portuguese Hindi Chinese Korean Japanese More Log In English Dictionary Thesaurus Word Lists Grammar English Easy Learning Grammar Grammar Patterns English Usage Teaching Resources Video Guides Conjugations Sentences Video Learn English Video pronunciations Build your vocabulary Quiz English grammar English collocations English confusables English idioms English images English usage Thematic word lists English French German Italian Spanish Portuguese Hindi Chinese Korean Japanese English Dictionary Grammar Share × Credits × Example sentences discerning traveller These examples have been automatically selected and may contain sensitive content that does not reflect the opinions or policies of Collins, or its parent company HarperCollins. We welcome feedback: you can select the flag against a sentence to report it. Read more… All of which confront the discerning traveller with a considerable range of choices. Times, Sunday Times There's a new breed of travel agent out there, supplying the inside track to the discerning traveller . Times, Sunday Times This review website, which covers hotels, restaurants, bars and airlines, says that it's in nobody's pocket and offers 'reliable reviews for the discerning traveller '. Times, Sunday Times I'd like to think that we will now be more discerning travellers and show greater cultural sensitivity. Times, Sunday Times Likewise, who needs the bedroom to have a label, so long as what's there meets the discerning traveller's needs? Times, Sunday Times Report an issue Why have you flagged this sentence? It is not useful It is offensive Read more on how we generate our sentences. Submit Cancel Definition of 'discerning' discerning ( dɪs ɜː ʳnɪŋ ) adjective If you describe someone as discerning , you mean that they are able to judge which things of a particular kind are good and which are bad . [...] [ approval ] See full entry for 'discerning' Collins COBUILD Advanced Learner’s Dictionary . Copyright © HarperCollins Publishers Definition of 'traveller' traveller ( tr æ vələʳ ) countable noun A traveller is a person who is making a journey or a person who travels a lot . [...] See full entry for 'traveller' Collins COBUILD Advanced Learner’s Dictionary . Copyright © HarperCollins Publishers COBUILD Collocations discerning traveller discerning eye discerning reader discerning taste discerning traveller discerning viewer You may also like English Quiz Confusables Language Lover's Blog Translate your text Pronunciation Playlists Word of the day: 'chakra' NEW from Collins! English Grammar Collins Apps Browse alphabetically discerning traveller discerning eye discerning reader discerning taste discerning traveller discerning viewer discernment discerp All ENGLISH words that begin with 'D' Source Definition of discerning traveller from the Collins English Dictionary Read about the team of authors behind Collins Dictionaries. New from Collins xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Quick word challenge Quiz Review Question: 1 - Score: 0 / 5 long-term goal or winning goal ? Drag the correct answer into the box. long-term goal winning goal This needs to be approached in a realistic manner. murder scene or music scene ? Drag the correct answer into the box. murder scene music scene Mobile signals enabled police to place them at the . criminal activity or economic activity ? Drag the correct answer into the box. criminal activity economic activity There is no indication that either of them was involved in . faltering economy or industrial economies ? Which version is correct? The programme has wide significance for other advanced faltering economy . The programme has wide significance for other advanced industrial economies . divorce battle or leadership battle ? Which version is correct? One couple spent £2 million on lawyers' fees in a divorce battle . One couple spent £2 million on lawyers' fees in a leadership battle . Your score: Check See the answer Next Next quiz Review Jun 17, 2023 Word of the day chakra (in yoga ) any of the seven major energy centres in the body SEE FULL DEFINITION SEE PREVIOUS WORDS Sign up for our newsletter Get the latest news and gain access to exclusive updates and offers Sign me up Latest Word Submissions UPF Jun 13, 2023 falooda Jun 13, 2023 bop Jun 13, 2023 decouple Jun 13, 2023 View More Submit Eight-letter words in Scrabble Eight-letter words containing the most common letters in Scrabble are the ones paying the biggest dividends. Here are a few likely suspects. Read more 7 differences between British and American English words for clothing Here are 7 words for clothing that have different meanings in American and British English. Read more What’s the difference between lucky and happy? In today's Learning English post we explain the difference between lucky and happy. Improve your English with Collins. Read more Collins English Dictionary Apps Download our English Dictionary apps - available for both iOS and Android. Read more Collins Dictionaries for Schools Our new online dictionaries for schools provide a safe and appropriate environment for children. And best of all it's ad free, so sign up now and start using at home or in the classroom. Read more Word lists We have almost 200 lists of words from topics as varied as types of butterflies, jackets, currencies, vegetables and knots! Amaze your friends with your new-found knowledge! Read more Wordle Helper Stuck at Wordle? Try our helper to maintain your current streak! xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Quick word challenge Quiz Review Question: 1 - Score: 0 / 5 faltering economy or industrial economies ? Which version is correct? Swift change could harm Britain's already faltering economy . Swift change could harm Britain's already industrial economies . mathematical formula or successful formula ? Drag the correct answer into the box. successful formula mathematical formula It has been a surprisingly . field questions or raise questions ? Which version is correct? The proposals also field questions about when workers should retire. The proposals also raise questions about when workers should retire. murder scene or music scene ? Drag the correct answer into the box. music scene murder scene This city has an exciting arts and . consume energy or muster the energy ? Drag the correct answer into the box. consume energy muster the energy Features such as electric windows . Your score: Check See the answer Next Next quiz Review Dinna fash: 11 essential Scots and Gaelic words for Outlander fans With season 7 of Outlander landing this month, here are some essential Scottish words from the show. June 16, 2023 Read more Create an account and sign in to access this FREE content Register now or log in to access This page in English Italiano American Português 한국어 简体中文 Deutsch Español हिंदी 日本語 English Italiano American Português 한국어 简体中文 Deutsch Español हिंदी 日本語 Browse all official Collins dictionaries About Us Contact Us FAQS Related Links Advertise with us B2B Partnerships Collins COBUILD Collins ELT Dictionary API HarperCollins Publishers Word Banks Consent Management Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Do Not Sell My Personal Information Security © Collins 2023 LANGUAGE English English Dictionary Thesaurus Word Lists Grammar English Easy Learning Grammar Grammar Patterns English Usage Teaching Resources Video Guides Conjugations Sentences Video Learn English Video pronunciations Build your vocabulary Quiz English grammar English collocations English confusables English idioms English images English usage Thematic word lists French English to French French to English Grammar Pronunciation Guide Conjugations Sentences Video Build your vocabulary Quiz French confusables French images German English to German German to English Grammar Conjugations Sentences Video Build your vocabulary Quiz German confusables German images Italian English to Italian Italian to English Grammar Conjugations Sentences Video Build your vocabulary Quiz Italian confusables Italian images Spanish English to Spanish Spanish to English Grammar Pronunciation Guide Conjugations Sentences Video Build your vocabulary Quiz Portuguese English to Portuguese Portuguese to English Grammar Conjugations Video Build your vocabulary Hindi English to Hindi Hindi to English Video Build your vocabulary Chinese English to Simplified Simplified to English English to Traditional Traditional to English Quiz Mandarin Chinese confusables Mandarin Chinese images Traditional Chinese confusables Traditional Chinese images Video Build your vocabulary Korean English to Korean Korean to English Video Build your vocabulary Japanese English to Japanese Japanese to English Video Build your vocabulary TRANSLATOR GAMES Quiz English grammar English collocations English confusables English idioms English images English usage Thematic word lists French grammar French images German grammar German images Italian grammar Italian images Mandarin Chinese characters Traditional Chinese Spanish grammar Scrabble Wordle Helper Collins Conundrum SCHOOLS Home School Primary School Secondary School BLOG RESOURCES Resources Collins Word of the Day Paul Noble Method Word of the Year Collins API Example sentences for discerning traveller Learner's Dictionary: discerning Learner's Dictionary: traveller Collocations containing discerning