Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 20 1 20 1 Blantyre Road, Bothwell, Glasgow, South Lanarkshire, G71 See map Offers Over £1,750,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 24/05/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×6 BATHROOMS ×6 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features 6 bedrooms all en suite 4 generous reception rooms Well equipped home gym Swimming pool complex, with steam room, sauna and hot tub Private property enclosed behind stone wall with security gates. EPC Rating D EPC Rating = D Property description Substantial 6 bedroom palatial Bothwell home of an unrivalled scale with superb leisure complex. Description Elmwood House is an exceptional modern property completed in 2004. Constructed with a steel frame, red brick cladding and a slate roof, the property stands at an impressive 9,853 sq ft, making it one of the most substantial properties in the area. From the approach in, the high levels of security indicate the stature of the property beyond. Built over three floors, immediately on entering the striking vaulted hallway the palatial nature and scale of the property becomes apparent. Marble tiles, a breathtaking central staircase and then a natural flow of reception rooms appear smoothly from the central void. All the reception rooms enjoy either a bay window or doors opening to the outside space, ensuring that the garden plays a key part in the enjoyment of the property. The kitchen is a wonderful design by Smallbone with integrated appliances, including a wine fridge, integrated microwave oven, conventional and steam oven. In the centre of the kitchen is a breakfast bar with raised glazed bar area and seating beneath. On the first floor there are four spacious bedrooms, all with en suite facilities and ample storage, fully integrated network and television points; each bathroom has been individually designed. The second floor sees a further guest room with en suite facilities and a magnificent principal suite with luxurious en suite bathroom including a jacuzzi bath and an adjoining dressing room with wraparound storage. Whilst the essentials of the house are truly outstanding, one of the highlights of the property are the leisure facilities. These include a superb gym with air conditioning units and mirrored walls; a wonderful indoor swimming pool with condensation control system in place and alongside this there are designated changing facilities, a steam room and a sauna. The property, whilst grand in scale, operates with a very convenient and natural flow and lends itself brilliantly to a variety of lifestyles, be that high level entertaining, multi-generational living or just a private, secluded family home. The second floor sees a further guest room with ensuite facilities and a magnificent master suite with luxurious ensuite facilities including a jacuzzi bath and n adjoining dressing room with wrap around storage. Whilst the essentials of the house are of course magnificent one of the highlights of the property are the leisure facilities. These include a superb gym with air conditioning units and mirrored walls, a wonderful indoor swimming pool with condensation control system in place and alongside this there are designated changing facilities a steam room and a sauna. The property whilst grand in volume operates with a very convenient and natural flow and lends itself superbly to a variety living styles, be that high level entertaining, multi-generational living or just a private, secluded family home. Location Elmwood House is a magnificent modern property sitting behind a secure stone wall with electric security gates, situated in the village of Bothwell. Bothwell is an historic conservation village with a ruined castle. An affluent commuter community, it is generally accepted to be one of the Glasgow area's most sought after residential enclaves. Local amenities include excellent village shops, churches, library, pubs and restaurants. Bothwell has a highly regarded primary school, although many local children make the short journey to the private schools of Hutchesons Grammar or the High School of Glasgow. Hamilton College is only a few minutes’ drive away. For sports enthusiasts Lanarkshire is home to a number of excellent facilities including golf courses, fitness centres and the Scottish Rowing Centre at popular Strathclyde Park Square Footage: 9,853 sq ft Brochures Web Details Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Rating Graph Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Blantyre Road, Bothwell, Glasgow, South Lanarkshire, G71 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Blantyre Station 0.6 miles Uddingston Station 1.4 miles Hamilton West Station 1.9 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Savills, Glasgow 163 West George Street, Glasgow, G2 2JJ Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise span the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa, and the Middle East. Our scale gives us wide-ranging specialist and local knowledge, and we take pride in providing best-in-class advice as we help individuals, businesses and institutions make better property decisions. Outstanding property We have been advising on Read more More properties from this agent Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Savills, Glasgow 163 West George Street, Glasgow, G2 2JJ More properties from this agent Call agent : 0141 673 1232 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference GLS220239. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Savills, Glasgow . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0141 673 1232 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho