Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 44 2 44 2 Lauder Road, Grange, Edinburgh, EH9 See map Offers Over £2,650,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 10/10/2022 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×4 BATHROOMS ×5 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features A stunning, four bedroom contemporary home Private south facing walled garden Double integral garage Located in the highly sought after Grange area of Edinburgh Excellent local schools and amenities Highly energy efficient EPC Rating = C Property description A beautiful and unique energy efficient, 21st century home in the heart of the Grange that caters perfectly for modern living. Description A stunning, contemporary home benefitting from world class features including a panoramic glazed gallery, entertainment room, four bedrooms, private gardens and a double garage. The front path lies securely behind the entrance gate and leads to the impressive handmade Scandinavian teak front door. As you enter the entrance hall you are greeted with the most spectacular space. The "L" shaped design features an impressive glazed open-plan area on the ground floor which flows beautifully from a sitting area through the open kitchen and to a dining room. Within the sitting area is a standalone suspended 'Ergofocus' wood-burning fireplace with slate hearth which provides an extraordinary focal point and supplies plenty of heat for cosy winter nights. The kitchen beyond is a bespoke creation by Mowlem and features hand-crafted integrated kitchen units in walnut and Corian work surfaces throughout. The kitchen is well equipped with the appliances you would expect in a house of this quality, including a 40 bottle wine fridge, two dishwashers, steam oven and an integrated coffee machine, all by Miele and Gaggenau. Adjacent to the kitchen is the dining space, flanked on two sides by full height timber framed glass sliding doors to the garden and patio with a feature wall composed of slate from the Lake District. Returning to the entrance hall, on the opposing side to the living space is an office with doors leading to the garden and the hot-tub deck. This room would serve equally well as a fifth bedroom. Heading towards the rear of the property through a sliding glazed screen through to the utility room, installed by Kitchen’s International and featuring Corian worktops and Siemens washing machine and tumble dryer. A staircase leads from the utility room down to the entertainment room: a phenomenally useful and flexible space which would lend itself well to a cinema, playroom, games room or bar, amongst other things. Returning to the ground floor, a bespoke curved stair rises to the first floor where it opens to a stunning clerestory hallway with glazed gallery to one end, offering open views and a delightful seating or reading area. The remainder of the first floor of the spacious and stunning family home is made up of four bedrooms, three of which are en suite. The principal suite has numerous built in closets, a dressing area and a generously sized shower room with dual sinks and a bidet. There is also a family bathroom. Externally, 37A Lauder Road benefits from a beautifully maintained south facing walled garden featuring a decked area accessible directly from the living and dining areas and a hot tub deck next to the study. There is also a double integrated garage. Location Lauder Road is located at the heart of the Grange, a very well established residential suburb of Edinburgh, less than two miles drive south of the city centre. The popularity of the area is accounted for not only by its pleasant, quiet and leafy streets, but also by its convenient location for access to schools, local amenities and road links both in and out of town. Nearby Bruntsfield, Morningside and Newington provide a wealth of charming local shops, bars, cafes and restaurants, along with a cinema, theatre and a choice of supermarkets. There are a number of independent schools on the south side of the city, including George Watson's, George Heriot’s and Merchiston Castle School which are all within easy reach, while the Edinburgh Academy and Fettes College are also easily accessible. Square Footage: 4,520 sq ft Brochures Web Details Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Rating Graph Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: G Lauder Road, Grange, Edinburgh, EH9 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Edinburgh Waverley Station 1.1 miles Haymarket Station 1.4 miles Slateford Station 2.3 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Savills, Edinburgh Wemyss House 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise span the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa, and the Middle East. Our scale gives us wide-ranging specialist and local knowledge, and we take pride in providing best-in-class advice as we help individuals, businesses and institutions make better property decisions. Outstanding property We have been advising on Read more More properties from this agent Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Savills, Edinburgh Wemyss House 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH More properties from this agent Call agent : 0131 381 1711 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference EDT220467. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Savills, Edinburgh . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0131 381 1711 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho