Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Stamp Duty Calculator What is stamp duty? Stamp Duty Land Tax (SDLT) is a form of tax that is paid to the government when you purchase property or land, above a certain price threshold, in England or Northern Ireland. There are also equivalent taxes in Scotland and Wales. How much is stamp duty? The amount of stamp duty tax you will need to pay depends on a wide range of factors, including how much you pay for the property, the location of the property, whether you’re a UK resident, and whether you’re a first-time buyer. It also depends on whether you’re buying a main home, a holiday home or an investment property. Stamp duty calculator Location I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Begin a new search UK property for sale Search using 'town name', 'postcode' or 'station' Location Start Search Do first-time buyers pay stamp duty? How much stamp duty is payable in England and Northern Ireland? Stamp duty for non-residents When do you pay stamp duty and how is it paid? How much is stamp duty on second homes? How much is buy-to-let stamp duty? How much is new-build stamp duty? How much is shared-ownership stamp duty? Can I reduce stamp duty? Are there any stamp duty exemptions? Can I add stamp duty to my mortgage? How long does it take for mortgages to be approved? Do first-time buyers pay stamp duty? Yes, but at a lower rate than other buyers. If you’re a first-time buyer in England and Northern Ireland, and anyone else you’re buying with are first-time buyers, you won’t pay any stamp duty tax on a home priced at or below £425,000. For a home priced above £425,000, you will pay 5% on the amount you spend between £425,001 and £625,000. If the home you’re buying is priced above £625,000, you won’t qualify for first-time buyers’ relief. That means the standard rates of stamp duty, from £250,001 and above, will be payable. How much stamp duty is payable in England and Northern Ireland? You won’t pay any stamp duty on a residential property, or the portion of a property, priced at or below £250,000. From 23rd September 2022, stamp duty is payable at the following rates: Stamp duty tax band Normal rate Buying an additional property Up to £125,000 0% 3%* £125,001 to £250,000 0% 3% £250,001 to £925,000 5% 8% £925,001 to £1.5 million 10% 13% Over £1.5 million 12% 15% Remember, if you’re a first-time buyer, you won’t pay stamp duty tax on a property priced at or below £425,000. If you’re buying a home priced at or below £625,000, you’ll pay 5% on the amount you spend between £425,001 and £625,000. For a home priced over £625,000, the standard rates of stamp duty will be payable as you won’t qualify for first-time buyers' relief. * When purchasing an additional property, the stamp duty rate of 3% will be payable for properties priced between £40,001 and £125,000. You usually pay an extra 3% on top of the normal stamp duty rates if you’re buying a holiday home or a second home. For more details on all residential property stamp duty rates, visit gov.uk. Stamp duty for non-residents If you’re a non-UK resident buying a residential property in England or Northern Ireland, you’ll pay an additional 2% on top of the existing stamp duty rates for properties costing more than £40,000. This was introduced from 1st April 2021. You can find more information here. When do you pay stamp duty and how is it paid? Stamp duty tax is payable within two weeks of completing your sale. Your solicitor should handle the paperwork for you. If you would prefer to do it yourself, the Government guidance on how to go about it is here . How much is stamp duty on second homes? You usually pay an extra 3% on top of the normal stamp duty rates if you’re buying a holiday home or a second home. How much is buy-to-let stamp duty? Buyers investing in a rental property pay the same rate of stamp duty as those buying holiday homes, which is a 3% surcharge. How much is new-build stamp duty? You pay the same amount of stamp duty whether the home you’re buying is brand new or a resale property. How much is shared-ownership stamp duty? If you’re buying a portion of a property through a shared-ownership scheme, you only need to pay stamp duty on the part of the property you will own, and not on the part that you will be renting. If you intend to increase your share in the property in the future, you can choose to either make a one-off stamp duty payment based on the market value of the property, or pay stamp duty in stages as you acquire a bigger share. You should discuss the options with your housing association or lender. More detailed information can be found here . Can I reduce stamp duty? Before you make an offer, check what the nil-rate stamp duty threshold is and see if the purchase price falls within that. If you’re a first-time buyer, reduced stamp duty rates may apply, depending on the purchase price. Are there any stamp duty exemptions? If you buy a second home, and then sell your main home within three years and move into it full time, you may be able to reclaim the 3% surcharge you paid. If you’re self-building, you don’t need to pay stamp duty. Zero-carbon homes which cost less than £500,000 are also exempt. Can I add stamp duty to my mortgage? Yes, you can, if the maximum amount you can borrow covers both the portion of the property you’re buying with a mortgage, as well as the amount of stamp duty you will need to pay. How long does it take for mortgages to be approved? This varies, depending on how long it takes for a lender to carry out affordability and credit checks. If you’re ready to buy, but you haven’t got a mortgage agreed in principle yet, you’ll save valuable time by starting the process as soon as possible. You can use our Mortgage in Principle service and get a result in 20 minutes. Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho