Skip to main content Low Graphics Access keys help Home Explore the BBC Low graphics | Accessibility help BBC NEWS CHANNEL News services Your news when you want it News Front Page World UK England Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Business Politics Health Education Science & Environment Technology Entertainment Arts & Culture Also in the news ----------------- Video and Audio ----------------- Have Your Say Magazine In Pictures Country Profiles Special Reports RELATED BBC SITES SPORT WEATHER CBBC NEWSROUND ON THIS DAY EDITORS' BLOG Last Updated: Tuesday, 28 August 2007, 11:26 GMT 12:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Printable version Singer Fish and Marillion reunite Marillion joined Fish on stage for one song. Photo: Rob Day The classic line-up of rock band Marillion have performed together on stage for the first time in 19 years. Singer Fish, who went solo in 1988, was joined by his former bandmates for one song at a festival in Buckinghamshire. Fish described it as "just five guys doing a one-off and having a brilliant time together", and stressed that it would not lead to a full reunion. The quintet, who had 1980s hits such as Kayleigh and Lavender, played their debut single Market Square Heroes. The gig took place at the Hobble on the Cobbles event in Market Square, Aylesbury, where the band formed, on Sunday. The song came at the end of Fish's solo set. Photo: Rob Day Guitarist Steve Rothery, bassist Pete Trewavas, keyboardist Mark Kelly and drummer Ian Mosley all took part in the surprise performance. Fish told the BBC News website: "It was great. It was just a load of fun. But nothing should be read into it. I think it just proves that we're actually friends. "There's always been these rumours that there's some sort of animosity between us but that went a long, long time ago." The crowd let out a roar when the singer told them: "I want to produce some old friends of mine." One fan, Helen Vought, said: "The crowd went mental, jumping up and down and cheering and screaming. "It's something that I never ever thought would happen - and it did. There were literally grown men crying at the front of the audience." Fish, whose real name is Derek William Dick, said he suggested the performance after seeing Marillion live in Glasgow in June. Mark Kelly (left) and Steve Rothery played at the gig. Photo: Rob Day The band kept going after Fish left, with Steve Hogarth replacing him on vocals. Although they never recaptured the commercial success they enjoyed with Fish in the mid-80s, they have retained a loyal support and have regularly appeared in the UK top 40. Fish said he did not want to take part in a full reunion because Hogarth "does a great job with the band". "What they do is completely different," he said. "I've got a new album called 13th Star and anybody that listens to that will understand that I'm worlds apart from what the Marillion guys do. "We forged different paths over the 19 years." He is due to tour the UK in September, followed by dates in Europe until mid-December. Marillion released their 14th album, Somewhere Else, in April and will tour the UK and Europe in November and December. E-mail this to a friend Printable version Bookmark with: Delicious Digg reddit Facebook StumbleUpon What are these? VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS How Marillion used fans to fund their album SEE ALSO Web fans boost Marillion single 16 Apr 04 | Music Marillion fans to the rescue 11 May 01 | Music RELATED INTERNET LINKS Fish Marillion The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP ENTERTAINMENT STORIES U2 reschedule US and Canada dates Cheryl 'on the mend' says Cowell Chatsworth treasures up for sale MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW MOST SHARED MOST READ Most popular now, in detail MOST SHARED MOST READ BBC News BBC News BBC News BBC News BBC News BBC News Church 'colluded' with sex abuse bishop UK rail ticket machines hit by IT glitch BBC News BBC News Most popular now, in detail FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS Ghost town Has China's housing bubble burst? The guerilla plant How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire Walking away Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit Most Popular Now Most Popular Now | 56,514 people are reading stories on the site right now. "; PRODUCTS & SERVICES E-mail news Mobiles Alerts News feeds Interactive TV Podcasts BBC Copyright Notice MMIX Most Popular Now | 17,029 pages were read in the last minute. "; Back to top ^^ Help Privacy and cookies policy News sources About the BBC Contact us