Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 10 10 Old Craig, Craighouse, Edinburgh, EH10 See map Offers Over £2,800,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 29/11/2022 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×6 BATHROOMS ×6 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 4 Key features Fully refurbished Scots Baronial house forming part of the exclusive Craighouse development by Qmile Developments Finished to an exceptionally high specification throughout yet retains much of its original charm with a variety of period features Ideally caters for modern family living with a range of delightful living and entertaining spaces Spectacularly bright and spacious dining kitchen and family living room with a number of windows on each side Five generous and comfortable bedrooms over the second and third floors, of which all have en suite facilities, and potential for sixth bedroom on the ground floor also Grounds extend to just under one acre in total with a substantial south facing walled garden, driveway and private parking Two large outbuildings with great storage or potential for hobby rooms/gym Property description Splendid and historic refurbished Scots Baronial house finished to an exceptionally high specification, set in grounds of just under one acre within the exclusive Craighouse development Description Boasting an internal floor area of just under 7,000 square feet, Old Craig also features a private walled garden with a large expanse of lawn as its centrepiece. The generous grounds total just under one acre in size. Located to the rear of the house, there are two large storage outbuildings, which could be used as workshops or games rooms, as well as a private parking area with ample space for a few cars. The Category A-listed house is nearing completion of an extensive refurbishment and conversion project with the project architects working closely with Historic Scotland and Scottish Natural Heritage to restore it to its original splendour. The conversion project has involved changing the configuration of several rooms to transform the property into a comfortable family home offering wonderfully spacious, practical and flexible living spaces that complement the elegance of the impressive formal reception rooms over the ground and first floors. The exceptionally generous bedrooms are situated between the second and third floors with five bedrooms in total, all of which benefit from luxurious en suite facilities. The house retains much of its original charm with a wide variety of delightful period features. Of particular note are the two impressive stone fireplaces situated at either end of the fabulous barrel-vaulted sitting room on the ground floor. This spacious room offers a versatile entertaining and family living space with charming original windows. Also on the ground floor is a further beautifully wood-panelled room with an original reconditioned fireplace. Conveniently positioned off the main entrance hallway, this versatile space could be used as an additional sitting room, a library, games room or as a further bedroom if required. The formal drawing room is located on the first floor and has a stunning decorative wall frieze. Also on this floor is the wood-panelled dining room where there is a magnificent fireplace with an intricately carved wood inscription. Sitting in between the two elegant formal rooms is the original front entrance from where covered timber steps lead to the magnificent walled garden. Also located on the first floor is the quite exceptional, bright and spacious open plan kitchen, dining and family living space. With several windows on each side of the room, this wonderfully practical space is flooded with natural light creating the perfect space for contemporary family living and entertaining. There is direct access to the original stone terrace with panoramic views of Blackford Hill and the Edinburgh skyline, and stone steps leading to the northern side of the house. Historical Note Sitting in the heart of the luxury Craighouse development, Old Craig House is the oldest property on the site dating back to the 16th century. It is one of immense historical significance. With its crow-stepped roof gables, metal-studded fortress-style wood doors and a sweeping spiral stone staircase rising from ground to second floor, Old Craig is an exceptional example of the fashionable Scottish Baronial architectural style of that era. With an illustrious past, Old Craig was built by the Symsounes family in 1565 and, over the centuries, has been owned by several notable Scottish families and distinguished figures. These include Sir Thomas Elphinstone, a former Governor of Maryland in the United States and the Hill Burton family. Dr John Hill Burton, an eminent Scottish advocate and historian was appointed as the Queen’s Royal Historiographer and he lived there in the latter part of the 19th century. The house accommodated his formidable library collection of over 10,000 books. His son William Kinninmond Burton became a renowned engineer who worked on major infrastructure projects in Japan and is said to have designed Tokyo’s first skyscraper. There is a commemorative memorial dedicated to him in the formal landscaped gardens at Craighouse. Over the centuries, Old Craig has been altered and extended with a new wing added in the 18th century. Elaborate decorative elements were added at this time including four painted panels, commissioned from notable Edinburgh painters the Norrie family, one of which still remains today. Location Craighouse lies on the edge of the affluent city suburb of Morningside, one of Edinburgh’s most desirable residential areas. Morningside offers a variety of artisan cafes, specialist independent shops, delis and restaurants as well as being well served by supermarkets with a Waitrose and Marks & Spencer on Morningside Road. There are a wide variety of popular cultural amenities within a mile or two of Craighouse including the Dominion, a popular independent cinema, The Church Hill and The Kings theatres as well as the Filmhouse and Usher Hall on Lothian Road. There are plenty of leisure facilities in the local area including Craiglockhart Leisure and Tennis Centre, the Merchants of Edinburgh Golf Club and Watsonians FC, both of which neighbour Craighouse, and there is a dry ski slope at the Midlothian Ski Centre. Craighouse is situated on Easter Craiglockhart Hill that is a designated Nature Reserve with delightful nature trails and a wildlife pond. The many open green spaces of The Hermitage of Braid, Blackford Hill, Braid Hills and the spectacular Pentland Hills Regional Park are all within a mile or so. Craighouse falls into the catchment area for South Morningside Primary and Boroughmuir High School with private schooling within two mile including George Watsons, Merchiston Castle and George Heriot’s. Craighouse is situated within three miles of the cosmopolitan city centre that is home to some of the Scottish capital’s world -class museums, art galleries, historic attractions as well as restaurants and bars. The city also boasts a wide and varied shopping experience, with designer stores along George Street and Multrees Walk, a Harvey Nichols and John Lewis department store and the new St James Centre. The property is just over a mile from the City Bypass allowing easy access to Edinburgh Airport and connections to all the main routes across Scotland with the M8 to Glasgow, the M90 motorway to the north and the A1 to East Lothian. Surrounded by 52 acres of mature woodland and parkland, Craighouse is a £100 million upmarket residential development with 145 residences comprising townhouses, penthouses, apartments and historic house conversions. The exclusive luxury development offers a prestigious collection of stylish new-build residences juxtaposed alongside a cluster of magnificent Victorian buildings that recently housed Edinburgh Napier University. The grand baronial-styled Great Hall in New Craig, the largest and most architecturally ornate of the buildings, is particularly noteworthy. In the hospital history records of that period one of the physicians, Dr Thomas Clouston described Craighouse as, “one of the most beautiful sites in Edinburgh". Additional Info Specification - Please contact the selling agent for full details on the specification and finish. A six year Architect Certificate will also be provided by the developers. Photos - Please note that the internal photographs are CGIs Brochures Web Details Read more Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Old Craig, Craighouse, Edinburgh, EH10 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Slateford Station 0.7 miles Kingsknowe Station 1.5 miles Haymarket Station 1.6 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Savills, Edinburgh Wemyss House 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise span the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa, and the Middle East. Our scale gives us wide-ranging specialist and local knowledge, and we take pride in providing best-in-class advice as we help individuals, businesses and institutions make better property decisions. Outstanding property We have been advising on Read more More properties from this agent Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Savills, Edinburgh Wemyss House 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH More properties from this agent Call agent : 0131 381 1711 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference EDT220160. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Savills, Edinburgh . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0131 381 1711 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho