Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. Find out more Manage cookies Allow all cookies Manage Cookies Cookies are a small file saved on your computer that help store preferences and other information that’s used on the web pages you visit. See below for further information about the categories of cookies used on our site and your current preference settings. Turning any of these cookies off may affect your experience of the site. For more information about how we and our partners use cookies on our site, see our Cookie Policy Strictly necessary These cookies are necessary for the Savills website to function. Examples of this include: setting your privacy preferences, logging in to your Savills account, or filling in forms. Though these cookies cannot be switched off, you can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but please be aware that this will stop some parts of the Savills website from functioning as intended. Find out more about strictly necessary cookies here . Always allowed Functional cookies These cookies are used to enhance the performance of the Savills website, as without them certain functions of the website may not be available. While they are not vital for the website to run, they allow us to remember important information and your preferences such as previous location searches. Find out more about functional cookies here . Allow Targeting & tracking These cookies record your activity on the Savills website and our partners may use that information to show you adverts that they think you will be most interested in when you visit other websites. We may also use information recorded by these cookies to see how well these adverts are performing. Find out more about targeting and tracking cookies here . Allow Save and close Allow all cookies Location and Language Selection Close United Kingdom Location Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe United Kingdom Abu Dhabi Antigua Australia Austria The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dubai Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Guernsey Hong Kong SAR Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jersey Kenya Korea Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macao SAR Malaysia Mauritius Mexico Monaco Montenegro Mozambique Namibia The Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Pakistan The Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Serbia The Seychelles Sharjah Singapore South Africa Spain St Kitts & Nevis Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Thailand UAE United Kingdom United States Vietnam Zambia Zimbabwe Language English English English Book a valuation Search Close Site Search: Search My Account Menu Menu > Find a property > Market your property > Find a service > Why Savills > Insight & Opinion > Contact us Close Find a property Find a property Whether buying a townhouse or selling a country cottage, leasing corporate office space or renting farmland, our experts make it their business to understand your needs and help you find the right property. Search for a property Residential Search for a residential property Buy a property in London Rent a property in London New homes for sale Properties in Europe Properties in the Caribbean Properties in the US Properties in Asia Pacific Properties in The Alps Farms & Estates Search for rural property Farms for sale Estates for sale Equestrian property for sale Commercial Search for a commercial property Offices to lease in the UK Development land for sale in the UK Retail properties Industrial properties to lease Leisure properties for sale Hotels for sale Flexible office space Investment properties for sale Residential investment Student housing investment Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert What's your property worth? Get expert advice for residential, commercial or rural property, grounded in our experience and knowledge of local, regional and international markets. Arrange a market appraisal Property auctions As one of the UK’s leading auction houses, we offer a large selection of residential and commercial property for sale by auction. More Information Where are residential property sales holding up the strongest? Residential Sales 31 May 2023 We forecast that limited mortgage availability and high interest rates would see home buying activity levels fall in 2023. Read this article Market your property Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an agent Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Market your property Whether you're planning to sell, rent or are undecided, we have an expert who can help. More Information Selling a Residential Property Letting a Residential Property Auctioning a Property Selling a Mews Property Selling New-Build Property Selling International Property Selling a Farm Selling a Fishing Beat Selling a Forest or Woodland Selling a Quarry or Waste Management Facility Selling a Shoot Selling an Estate Selling Country Property Selling Equestrian Property Selling Waterfront Property Interior, Furnishing and Refurbishment Services Private Office Selling Commercial Property Selling Healthcare Property Selling Leisure or Trade-Related Property Real Estate Insights Podcast: Impacts 2023: what is the purpose of property? Research 7 June 2023 Our latest podcast discusses how financial, environmental and social purposes intersect, and how they can be measured, as well as unveiling some of the key findings to emerge from this year’s Impacts publication. Read this article Find a service Find a service Savills offers a wide range of specialist services from financial and investment advice to valuation, planning and property management. More Information Asset Management Auctions Buying or Selling Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Private Office Property Management Research Savills Earth (ESG Consulting) Valuation Browse by sector Our services cover a broad range of property sectors. More Information Affordable Housing Auctions Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food & Farming Forestry Healthcare High St/In Town Retail Hotels Industrial & Logistics Infrastructure Leisure Marine Minerals & Commodities Mixed Use Office & Business Space Operational Capital Markets Out of Town Retail Public Sector Pubs, Bars & Restaurants Residential Residential Investment & Development Residential Development Sales Retail Rural Science & Technology Senior Living Serviced Offices Shopping Centres Trade-Related Sports Venues Student Accommodation Telecoms Utilities Visitor Attractions Vineyards Waste Management Book a valuation Book your appointment with us today and let us help you keep moving. Our virtual options are still available if your prefer. Book a valuation Speak to an expert Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Find your nearest office With over 40,000 people working across more than 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Why Savills Why Savills Founded in the UK in 1855, Savills is one of the world's leading property agents. Our experience and expertise spans the globe, with over 700 offices across the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East. More Information How we work Our integrity, honesty and professionalism is what gives our clients, colleagues, investors and business partners the confidence to work with us. More Information Innovation and technology Savills is at the forefront of exploring and developing new capabilities, bringing together people and technology to push boundaries and take real estate to a new level. More Information Awards Over the years we have been recognised as ‘best in class’ in a diverse range of disciplines. More Information Sustainability & ESG Savills UK sustainability strategy aims to achieve a positive impact on the environment and society, whilst maintaining robust governance measures. More Information Investor relations Savills Plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange within the FTSE250 index. Our annual reports and investor updates can be found online. Visit our Investor Relations site Diversity & Inclusion Savills is committed to eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity amongst our workforce. More information Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion Insight & Opinion is our hub for residential, commercial and rural articles and research from experts offering industry-leading advice and analysis. Research In-depth research and analysis into property market trends, forecasts from our specialist research teams, and market-leading commentary to help you make the right property decisions. Browse our market research Subscribe to Savills Research Residential reports Residential forecasts Office reports Retail reports Rural reports Residential property prices and trends ESG Research Industrial reports Residential development & investment Savills Indices Research services Webinars The Savills Blog The latest UK and international property market news and opinions, plus helpful guides and top tips from our renowned industry experts. Read the Savills Blog Savills News Up-to-the-minute news from our press teams providing the latest developments within Savills, and across the property industry. Read our press releases Savills Podcasts Keep yourself informed on the ‘real’ behind the real estate headlines, our podcast brings you engaging and insightful discussion with experts across our global business on the issues that matter most in property. Listen to the podcasts Portfolio by Savills Portfolio by Savills seamlessly blends the latest trends, inspirational lifestyle content, and the world’s finest properties with the expert insight and analysis you would expect from Savills. Portfolio has property at its heart, and we’d like you to be part of it. Explore Portfolio by Savills Contact us Find an office With over 40,000 people working across 70 countries around the world, we'll always have an expert who is local to you. Find your local office Our offices by region London East of England East Midlands North East North West South East South West West Midlands Yorkshire & The Humber Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Channel Islands Find a person Whatever your needs, we have someone who can help. Find a local expert Careers with Savills At Savills, our most valuable resource is our people. We are known for our positive, entrepreneurial culture, and for attracting some of the most innovative, dedicated and knowledgeable people in the business. More Information Current Vacancies General enquiries We're here to provide you with more information, answer any questions you may have, or connect you with the right people to help with your needs. Use our general enquiry form to get in touch today. Speak to the team 6 of the best...Former rectories Residential Sales 9 June 2023 From the recently renovated to the classically stylish, featured here are a few of our favourite examples currently on the market. Read this article > Home Planning Details Contacts & Related Articles Contact the team Any transaction involving land or buildings is shaped by planning. Expert guidance can make all the difference in establishing the best achievable permissions. Our network of over 250 specialist planning consultants advise clients on planning applications, appraisals and appeals, compulsory purchase and compensation, regeneration and urban design, economics, heritage appraisals and strategy, legal agreements and infrastructure payments, stakeholder engagement, sustainability and environment, and planning policy. Savills is our preferred advisors and consistently deliver commercially viable planning permissions for our divisions across London and the South East Bellway Homes We maximise property values and viability through sector-leading expertise and a substantial UK-wide planning network. We are operate from regional offices in Birmingham , Bristol , Cambridge , Cardiff , Edinburgh , Glasgow , Guildford , Leeds , London , Manchester , Oxford , Reading , Sevenoaks , Southampton and Wimborne . Within London, we have specialists dedicated to each borough, too. Our geographical reach and expertise in all areas of land use allows us to combine sector-leading expertise with detailed local knowledge to identify solutions to the most complex and challenging planning projects. First Homes: London Planning and Viability Implications Experts in Planning David Jackson Head of Planning and Savills Earth Head Office London +44 (0) 20 7420 6371 Contact Now Related Articles Industrial and Logistics Savills ProgrammE and Cost Sentiment Infrastructure and Transport Infrastructure (Wales) Bill is major step towards delivering on net zero targets Planning & Development Planning Research 2023 Planning & Development Is the planning system delivering the volume and mix of sites to increase delivery in England? Planning & Development Increasing market capacity through planning Planning & Development The appeal process and effective local decision-making Planning Consultants Previous Director Jonathan Steele Head of Housing Sector Planning +44 (0) 7967 555 818 Contact Jonathan Director Jeremy Hinds Head of National Retail Planning +44 (0) 161 277 7278 Contact Jeremy Director Chris Potts Head of Sports and Leisure Planning +44 (0) 2920 368 901 Contact Chris Director Alastair Wood Planning - Scotland +44 (0) 131 247 3748 Contact Alastair Director Adam Key Planning - Leeds +44 (0) 113 220 1278 Contact Adam Director Jay Patel Planning - Manchester +44 (0) 1616 028 258 Contact Jay Director Neil Morton Planning - Newcastle +44 (0) 191 323 3143 Contact Neil Director Michael Davies Planning - Birmingham +44 (0) 121 634 8436 Contact Michael Director Paul Rouse Planning - Birmingham +44 (0) 121 634 8431 Contact Paul Director Rob Linnell Planning - Oxford +44 (0) 1865 269 042 Contact Rob Director Phil Brown Planning - Reading +44 (0) 118 952 0506 Contact Phil Director Andy Moffat Planning - Cambridge +44 (0) 1223 347 046 Contact Andy Director Simon Wallis Head of London Planning +44 (0) 20 7420 6370 Contact Simon Director Charlie Collins Planning - Guildford +44 (0) 1483 796 837 Contact Charlie Director Guy Dixon Planning - Brighton +44 (0) 1273 200 098 Contact Guy Director Dan Smyth Planning - Brighton Environment & Infrastructure Contact Dan Director Gavin Hall Planning - Southampton +44 (0) 23 8071 3947 Contact Gavin Director Peter Lamb Planning - Wimborne +44 (0) 1202 856 807 Contact Peter Director Craig O'Brien Planning - Bristol +44 (0) 1179 100 335 Contact Craig Director Laura Williams Planning - Cardiff +44 (0) 2920 368 905 Contact Laura Next Case studies Previous Housing Sector Planning Wellesley, Aldershot Wellesley is the redevelopment of a significant part of Aldershot Garrison, the historic home of the British Army. Housing Sector Planning Centenary Quay The development, now known as Centenary Quay, comprises a major riverside mixed-use scheme including up to 1,620 new homes. Estate Regeneration Castlefield Estate Regeneration Planning permission was granted on 23rd March 2021 for the redevelopment of the north and south sites. Infrastructure Planning Longridge Road Energy Centre Savills identified the site using GIS and initiated contact with the owner. Next Services Consultancy Architectural Design Our clients benefit from a full, end-to-end architectural design service provided by an award-winning team. This entails advising private individuals and corporate entities, colleges and educational institutions, urban and rural estates and landowners on architectural aspects of commercial, residential, cultural, agricultural and leisure property projects. Read more Planning Education Planning We work with universities, colleges, schools and student accommodation providers to deliver planning permission for their operational requirements, and to release value from property assets. Read more Planning Energy Planning Investment in energy infrastructure is a national economic priority. As the UK’s largest integrated property and planning consultancy, Savills is in an ideal position to help energy projects achieve success. Read more Planning Estate Regeneration and Affordable Housing Delivery Our dedicated Housing & Estate Regeneration team has extensive experience and a proven track record for advising and adding value to some of the most complex and high profile estate regeneration and strategic, mixed tenure projects in London and across the UK. Our unrivalled geographical presence gives us a powerful platform from which we deliver a best in class service for our Registered Provider and Local Authority clients, and their development partners. Read more Consultancy Heritage & Townscape Planning When developing a heritage site or building, specialist planning guidance can spell the difference between a smooth ride and a rocky road. Read more Planning Leisure Planning We help clients who are planning to make the most of a property for leisure purposes. This includes proposals for glamping, touring caravan, static holiday caravan sites, luxury lodge parks, mixed holiday uses and park home estates. In each case we help secure planning permission with expert input on design and site layout; then guide development whilst liaising with all relevant local authorities. Read more Planning London Planning Our London planning team comprises more than 90 professionals, providing a comprehensive service across all market sectors and London boroughs. This entails working on planning appraisals & strategy; planning applications & appeals; CIL; and Section 106 agreements. Read more Planning Offices & Industrial Planning Our business space specialists work alongside fellow Savills agency experts to help developers, investors, land owners, corporate occupiers, logistics companies and public sector bodies achieve the most from their office and industrial assets. Read more Planning Housing Sector Planning We unlock the development potential for the housing sector, working for land owners, house builders, institutions, funds, promoters, property companies, Registered Providers and the public sector. Read more Planning Infrastructure Planning Infrastructure is a major focus in delivering Global Britain and carbon Net Zero by 2050. Our team of senior and experienced staff work on planning and consents for major projects that relate to this mission, including offshore wind, solar and nuclear energy. Read more Planning Property Economics Working for property developers, landlords, investors, the public sector, commercial and retail occupiers, our team assists with economics impact assessment, market analysis, feasibility studies and business. Read more Planning Retail Planning The retail sector is a dynamic part of the UK economy and continues to be reshaped by consumer demand and the digital world. Read more Planning Rural Planning Our planning consultants are rural specialists, maximising opportunities for any client hoping to develop buildings and land in the countryside. We are instructed by land owners, estates, private clients and developers on a range of non-urban matters covering residential development, farm buildings and diversification, permitted development and renewable energy. Read more Planning Sports Planning Working for property developers, landlords, investors, the public sector, commercial and retail occupiers, our team assists with economics impact assessment, market analysis, feasibility studies and business. Read more Planning Sustainability & Environment Planning Basic planning is never enough: our expertise in sustainability and environment ensures any proposed development combines best practice and legislative compliance in these vital areas. Read more Planning Urban Design Our job is to help drive forward high-quality development through effective masterplanning. We do this by combining placemaking technical skills, market knowledge and design experience with commercial advice and creative innovation. Read more Planning Urban Regeneration The nation is in need of creative but deliverable urban regeneration to make the best use of our cities and improve their offer in a highly competitive world. Over the years, technology has significantly increased the mobility of capital and talent, and the attraction of our cities is now key to realising their economic potential and opportunity to add value to real estate. Read more Consultancy Workplace Strategy & Design Operating globally from our base in London, our award-winning interior architectural practice specialises in full service interior architecture and design, development advisory, and workplace strategy for occupiers. Read more Subscribe to receive exclusive news and listings free Send Success! You are now subscribed to the Savills mailing list. Sorry, something went wrong. Residential Property For sale Property for sale Property for sale Scotland Property for sale England Property for sale Wales Property for sale in London Help to Buy in London Help to Buy in UK New developments for sale in England New developments for sale in London New developments for sale in Scotland For rent Property to rent in UK Property to rent Scotland Property to rent England Property to rent Wales Property to rent in London New developments to rent in England New developments to rent in London New developments to rent in Scotland Commercial Property For sale Commercial property for sale Development property for sale Industrial properties for sale Leisure properties for sale Offices for sale Hotels for sale Land for sale Industrial property for sale England Hotels for sale in England Offices for sale in England Flexible office space For rent Office property to let Industrial property to let Pubs to let Rural Property Rural property for sale Farms for sale Equestrian property for sale Country estates for sale International Property for sale in Europe Property for sale in France Property for sale in the US Property for sale in Italy Property for sale in Australia Offices All UK offices UK offices by county London Offices Find an office worldwide Services & Sectors Services Asset Management Buying or Selling Property Consultancy Development Finance Investment Letting or Renting Occupier Services Planning Property Management Valuation Sectors Affordable Housing Central London Retail Education Energy & Sustainability Food and Farming Healthcare Hotels Industrial And logistics Infrastructure and Transport Leisure Minerals and Commodities Office & Business Space Public Sector Residential Retail Rural Senior Living Serviced Offices Student Accommodation Telecoms Trade-Related & Specialist Sectors Utilities Waste Management More Information Sitemap RSS Feeds Accessibility Feedback TDS Explained Provision of Services Slavery & Human Trafficking Terms & Conditions Privacy & Cookies Client Money Protection Scotland Letting Agent Code of Practice Help to Buy Calculator Residential Stamp Duty Calculator Commercial Stamp Duty Calculator Rental Yield Calculator Land & Buildings Transaction Tax (LBTT) Calculator ESG at Savills Fees & Charges Residential Tenant Fees & Charges Residential Landlord Fees & Charges Talk to Us Find a Savills Office Find a Savills Employee Book a Property Valuation Careers with Savills Ask a Question Investor Relations All content © copyright Savills. All rights reserved. Savills plc, incorporated and registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD. Registered number: 2122174. Savills plc is a holding company, some of whose subsidiaries are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and some of whose subsidiaries are regulated by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). Find us on social Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Facebook YouTube