Search Britannica Click here to search Browse Dictionary Quizzes Money Video Login Subscribe Subscribe Entertainment & Pop Culture Geography & Travel Health & Medicine Lifestyles & Social Issues Literature Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Science Sports & Recreation Technology Visual Arts World History On This Day in History Quizzes Podcasts Dictionary Biographies Summaries Top Questions Infographics Demystified Lists #WTFact Companions Image Galleries Spotlight The Forum One Good Fact Entertainment & Pop Culture Geography & Travel Health & Medicine Lifestyles & Social Issues Literature Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Science Sports & Recreation Technology Visual Arts World History Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. This Time in History In these videos, find out what happened this month (or any month!) in history. Student Portal Britannica is the ultimate student resource for key school subjects like history, government, literature, and more. COVID-19 Portal While this global health crisis continues to evolve, it can be useful to look to past pandemics to better understand how to respond today. 100 Women Britannica celebrates the centennial of the Nineteenth Amendment, highlighting suffragists and history-making politicians. Saving Earth Britannica Presents Earth’s To-Do List for the 21st Century. Learn about the major environmental problems facing our planet and what can be done about them! SpaceNext50 Britannica presents SpaceNext50, From the race to the Moon to space stewardship, we explore a wide range of subjects that feed our curiosity about space! sacred place Table of Contents sacred place Table of Contents References sacred place Actions Share Share Share to social media Facebook Twitter URL https://www.britannica.com Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites Public Broadcasting Service - Sacred Spaces Fact Monster - World - Holy Places Share Share Share to social media Facebook Twitter URL https://www.britannica.com Learn about this topic in these articles: Assorted References major references In worship: Sacred places Worship has its appointed places. A place of worship became sacred and suitable by virtue of the holy’s appearing at that place. Sacred places were also sites of natural and historical significance for the community: springs, river crossings, threshing places, trees or groves… Read More In ceremonial object: Places of worship and sacrifice …evidence of worship at natural sites as well as at sites constructed for ritualistic purposes. In the protohistory and perhaps the prehistory of most ancient civilizations, people venerated trees, stones, bodies of water, and other natural objects, which gradually became the objects of established cults and which often were included,… Read More cultural and religious groups ancient European religions Germanic In Germanic religion and mythology: Worship …Tacitus, took place in a sacred grove; other examples of sacred groves include the one in which Nerthus usually resides. Tacitus does, however, mention temples in Germany, though they were probably few. Old English laws mention fenced places around a stone, tree, or other object of worship. In Scandinavia, men… Read More Hellenistic In Hellenistic religion: Nature and significance …of the deity to certain sacred places was weakened. Rather than a god who dwelt in his temple, the diasporic traditions evolved complicated techniques for achieving visions, epiphanies (manifestations of a god), or heavenly journeys to a transcendent god. This led to a change from concern for a religion of… Read More Slavic In Baltic religion: Temples and other holy places …hand, the existence of open-air holy places or sites of worship among the Balts is confirmed by both the earliest historical documents and folklore. Such places were holy groves, called alka in Lithuanian. Later the word came to mean any holy place or site of worship (Lithuanian alkvietė ). Considerable research… Read More Hinduism In Hinduism: Vedic and Brahmanic rites …is a close correspondence between sacred places—such as the sacrificial place of many Vedic rites, a place of pilgrimage, or a consecrated area—and provinces of the universe or even the universe itself. In such places, direct communication with other cosmic regions (heaven or underworld) is possible, because they are said… Read More history In Hinduism: Challenges to Brahmanism (6th–2nd century bce) …and other minor spirits in sacred places such as groves. Although these sacred places were the main centres of popular religious life, there is no evidence of any buildings or images associated with them, and it appears that neither temples nor large icons existed at the time. Read More mythology In Hinduism: Myths of holy rivers and holy places Of particular sanctity in India are the rivers, among which the Ganges stands first. This river, personified as a goddess, originally flowed only in heaven until she was brought down by Bhagiratha to purify the ashes of his ancestors. She came down reluctantly,… Read More pilgrimages In Hinduism: Religious organization of sacred architecture Temples must be erected on sites that are shubha —i.e., suitable, beautiful, auspicious, and near water—because it is thought that the gods will not come to other places. However, temples are not necessarily designed to be congenial to their surroundings, because a manifestation of… Read More Christianity In Christianity: Veneration of places, objects, and people …its interpretation, traditions centring on holy places also developed. The veneration of holy places is the oldest expression of Christian popular piety. From Judaism Christianity adopted the idea and practice of venerating holy places. In post-exilic Judaism (i.e., after the 5th century bce ), Jerusalem was the sanctuary and the centre… Read More cults of high places In nature worship: Mountains …mountains are favourite places for cults of high places, particularly when they are isolated as island mountains, mountains with snowcaps, or uninhabited high mountain ranges. The psychological roots of the cults of high places lie in the belief that mountains are close to the sky (as heavenly ladders), that clouds… Read More Daoism In Daoism: Daoism under the Tang dynasty (618–907) …the systematic elaboration of its sacred mountains and the traditions attaching to each of them. They are described by the great hagiographer, Du Guangting, at the end of the Tang dynasty. In addition to the great “cavern-heavens” ( dongtian ), 10 holy mountains known to the original Maoshan revelations, he lists 36… Read More Hawaiian In Oceanic art and architecture: The Hawaiian Islands …of the settings of the sacred enclosures. Posts, carved at the top with rudimentary human forms, including heads with slanting eyes, wide mouths, and chevron-shaped brows, were parts of fences. Flat figures or faces topped with panels decorated with chevrons or silhouettes were kept inside the enclosures. Three-dimensional, full-length figures… Read More Islam In Islam: Sacred places and days The most sacred place for Muslims is the Kaʿbah sanctuary at Mecca, the object of the annual pilgrimage. It is much more than a mosque; it is believed to be the place where the heavenly bliss and power touches the earth… Read More Native American religions In Native American religions: Issues and concerns …traditional religions is control of sacred sites. Many locations used for ceremonial purposes or considered to be the home of powerful entities have been disrupted and contaminated by recreational activities and economic exploitation. This has been especially problematic when it occurs on public lands, as in the cases of Devils… Read More religious and social aspects miracles In miracle: Sacred places Miracles are often connected with special sacred places. Normally these are natural shrines, such as sacred groves, or temples and sanctuaries in which gods or spirits live or have manifested themselves or in which their statues, symbols, holy objects, or relics are enshrined.… Read More revelation In revelation: Religions of nonliterate cultures The sacred or holy is likewise believed to be present in sacred trees, groves, shrines, and the like, and in elemental realities such as earth, water, sky, and the heavenly bodies. Once specified as holy, such objects take on symbolic value and become capable of mediating… Read More ritual In ritual: Conclusion ” Time and place are essential features of ritual action, and both mark a specific orientation or setting for ritual. Time and space, whether a plot of ground or a magnificent temple, are ritually created and become, in turn, the context for other rituals. Examples of ritual time… Read More sacredness In sacred: Manifestations of the sacred …persons are consecrated, so specific places are designated as the “gate of heaven.” Temples and shrines are recognized by devotees as places where special attitudes and restrictions prevail because they are the abode of the sacred. Likewise, certain images of God (and sacred books) are held to be uniquely powerful… Read More sacrifice In sacrifice: Time and place of sacrifice The common place of sacrifice in most cults is an altar. The table type of altar is uncommon; more often it is only a pillar, a mound of earth, a stone, or a pile of stones. Among the Hebrews in early times and other Semitic peoples the… Read More saint veneration In saint: Forms of cults …dedicated to certain saints, at holy places—temples, churches, shrines, or chapels where the supplicant can be certain of their direct presence and aid. This custom is of ancient origin—e.g., the votive offerings dedicated to the healing god Asclepius in the museum of Epidaurus (Greece). This practice is still to be… Read More symbolism In religious symbolism and iconography: Symbols of sacred time and space …to or transparencies of the sacred or holy. The sacred manifests itself in time and space, so that time and space themselves become diaphanous indications of the holy. The holy place—a shrine, forest grove, temple, church, or other area of worship—is symbolically marked off as a sacred area. The signs,… Read More worship In worship: Primary functions …the right manner, and the sanctity of the site identified and maintained. Read More