Search Report a repair Contact us My Move Account Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Sell Property valuation Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Local Sold House Prices Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Looking to move? Get your property valuation Get your conveyancing solicitor Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations How much can I afford? - use our budget planner and find out Something need fixing - Report a repair Landlords Rental valuation Book an accurate lettings valuation Get an instant online valuation Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations Looking to let? Get your property valuation Get your property managed New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Mortgages Mortgage Services Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Book your mortgage appointment About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection Branches Sales Amersham Hazlemere and Great Missenden High Wycombe Princes Risborough Land & New Homes Lettings Amersham High Wycombe Princes Risborough Fine & Country Fine & Country South Buckinghamshire Other departments Sales Progression Property Management JNP Handyman Services Head Office xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? My Move xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Branches xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Report a repair - Fixflo Branches Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Sell Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Local Sold House Prices Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Existing tenants Report a maintenance issue What to do in an emergency Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations Landlords Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Mortgages Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Careers About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection You're in control We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. To learn more about how we use cookies, please see our Cookie Policy . You can manage your preferences now on this banner, or via your browser at anytime. Functional Active Inactive Analytical Active Inactive Non-essential Active Inactive Manage Accept Home Sell Selling guides Preparing your home for sale Preparing your home for sale Book a valuation Selling guides First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Preparing your home for sale Making the right first impression is crucial to ensure your prospective buyers fall in love with your property as you did when you viewed it. Attention to detail is everything. Our experience shows that a well presented home not only sells faster but for a better price. Whether you prefer to use our open house service or would prefer us to escort viewers individually, we can help you to prepare your home by offering guidance and access to approved maintenance contractors. Buyers will often draw conclusions about the way you have maintained the property based on the amount of effort you put into showing it when you come to sell it. If it doesn’t look clean, tidy and well looked after, they may well think that other more fundamental maintenance to electrics, roofs and boilers has not been done either. Here are some tips to consider before anyone visits. These steps should be taken early before marketing photos are taken and maintained throughout the selling process. Outside Curb appeal is really important (first impressions count!). Paint/clean the front door and make sure the front garden is immaculate If you have a communal entrance or hallway, ask fellow occupiers to keep it clean and clutter free Tidy the garden, cut the grass and bring in any washing Be ready to move your car off the drive if you have one Put your bins away Clean and tidy Clean your home, paying special attention to the kitchen and bathroom – make the taps shine! Clean the windows inside and out Open windows to air the property and clear any smells that might linger Clear away the clutter – if you’re serious about moving then you’ll need to pack to move - why not start now and clear out the things you really don’t want to keep? Clear the hallway of coats, shoes (and bikes!) Tidy surfaces - in the kitchen, put away all food, packets and washing up Children’s toys in children’s rooms are okay, box up small toys Clear away all paperwork Hide wires/chargers Replace any blown lightbulbs Straighten pictures Bedroom / Bathroom Clear the tops of wardrobes and under the beds – if your home looks like you can’t fit in it any more, it’ll put off buyers Things that you might not do religiously every morning now need to be done. Make the beds every day and put away clothes Use clean bedlinen Clean bath/shower and toilet Store away toiletries Dress the property to impress De-personalise the property as much as you can. You want prospective buyers to be able to imagine their furniture and belonging in your home. Too much or the wrong furniture in rooms can put buyers off. Give each room a purpose. Bedrooms should look like bedrooms, and the living room like a living room! Plump up pillows and cushions Consider filling vases with fresh flowers Clear fireplaces or considering lighting them for viewings For viewings, ask a friend or neighbour to look after your pets and small children. This is a good idea so they don’t get stressed particularly if you are having an Open Day with lots of viewings in a short period of time. Try and remember what the property was like when you first saw it – what things attracted you and what things did you notice that needed changing or taking care of? Following these tips will make sure that any issues are resolved and will help highlight your property’s best features. Previous - The selling process Useful information for sellers Get your property valued Book your valuation today and start your property move Why sell with us? Find out more about selling with JNP Financial services for sellers Helpful information about mortgages and insurance Useful information for sellers Get your property valued Why sell with us Financial services for sellers Book a valuation Contact your local branch My Move account Buy Find Property For Sale Land & New Homes Buying Calculators Rent Find Property To Rent Permitted payments Report a repair Sell Sell your property with us Book a property valuation Get an instant valuation Landlords Landlord services Service options & Fees Guides for landlords Services Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Helpful Links Careers Branches Privacy Notice Legal Information Accessibility Cookie Policy VAT Complaints Procedure Client Money Protection Anti Money Laundering information xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? JNP is a trading name, independently owned and operated under licence from LSLi Limited by AIG (KH) Ltd (company number 14772222), registered in England at 5 Brooklands Place, Brooklands Road, Sale, Cheshire, England, M33 3SD. Also trading as Fine & Country. We may refer you to recommended providers of ancillary services such as Conveyancing, Financial Services, Insurance and Surveying. We may receive a commission payment fee or other benefit (known as a referral fee) for recommending their services. You are not under any obligation to use the services of the recommended provider. The ancillary service provider may be an associated company of JNP.