Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Share this Share on Facebook Share on Twitter https://www.rightmove.co.uk/moving-stories/eddie-jayne-downsize-new-home/?utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=sharing&utm_campaign=moving-stories Page link copied! Downsizing to a new-build community was our right move Share this Share on Facebook Share on Twitter https://www.rightmove.co.uk/moving-stories/eddie-jayne-downsize-new-home/?utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=sharing&utm_campaign=moving-stories Page link copied! Eddie and Jayne had lived in their Surrey home for 26 years before deciding it was time for a change. Their renovated 1970s house was a home they’d loved, and where they’d raised their two children. But after their son and daughter had flown the nest, they found themselves with more space than they needed. And having both retired, the nearby motorway that was once the perfect drive-to-work link, became something they’d rather leave behind. Eddie says: “We wanted to move away from such a busy commuter town, to somewhere more peaceful. We’re very keen on campervanning, so geographically we wanted to be closer to the countryside, so we can explore different areas more easily.” Location was important to Eddie and Jayne, but so was the type of property they were to move to. They were looking for somewhere for the two of them and their miniature poodle, Harry, that was still big enough to fit the family when they came to stay. Eddie says: “Our children have both moved out to start their own lives, so we were looking for a downsized property. But we wanted three bedrooms, so that when our children and their partners come to visit, they have space of their own.” As well as moving to a space that was better suited to them, downsizing had other benefits, too. Eddie and Jayne were able to support their children in the next steps of their lives. “Our daughter’s wedding is next year, and our son is looking to buy his first home. So , these seemed like the perfect things to put the extra money we’d have from our house sale towards,” adds Eddie. On (the road) to new beginnings Through the couple’s love of campervanning, they’d already explored lots of potential areas to move to. And the village of Shrivenham , in Oxfordshire , stood out as somewhere that ticked all the boxes. “Having stopped in the village on one of our holidays, we knew it was where we wanted to be. Both of our children work nearby, and we’re only an hour away from our parents, so we’re still able to visit them regularly,” says Eddie. “We looked at properties for sale in the area on Rightmove, and that’s when we came across Cross Trees Park .” Surrounded by lush Oxfordshire countryside, Cross Trees Park is a new village development from Legal & General Homes. It’s close to both Oxford and Reading , and less than 10 minutes’ drive from Swindon . The two, three and four-bedroom homes are set in 13 acres of parkland, and the homes feature slick finishes and fittings, smart thermostats, and energy-efficient appliances. Homes are also fitted with high-thermal-performance, argon-filled windows, that minimise heat loss, and reduce energy usage. Just outside the development, the neighbouring idyllic village of Shrivenham has several pubs, shops and golf courses. “Knowing that almost everything we could need was just a short walk away and in such a beautiful location was a huge positive for us,” says Eddie. “As location was high on our wish-list”. And having nearby walking routes for miniature-poodle Harry, was another selling point. Shrivenham has two main footpaths – an inner circle around the village, and an outer one – both connected directly with Cross Trees Park. “It means we can walk from our front door the whole way around the village without crossing any major roads, which has been great for walking Harry,” adds Eddie. Adding their own stamp to their “perfect plot” Now settled in their new detached home, Eddie and Jayne are putting their own finishing touches on their new, downsized space. They can focus on decorating, rather than the DIY jobs that can inevitably come with moving into an older property. “Moving to a new-build has given us a clean slate and a fresh start from a house maintenance point of view. We won’t have to think about anything like that for several years , ” says Eddie. There’s a designated study at the end of the living room, but, having retired six years ago, Eddie has found another way to utilise his would-be workspace. “The study has become a gin bar for us, and houses our collection of bottles from everywhere we’ve travelled in our camper van,” he laughs. Eddie and Jayne also love where their home is positioned in Cross Trees Park, “We know everyone must say this, but we really feel our home is in the best possible place. Our garden is a great size, there isn’t a house in front of us, and the ones behind don’t back onto us.” Finding a new community, as well as a new home As more people move into Cross Trees Park, the couple can feel their network widening. “We’d lived in our previous home for almost three decades,” says Jayne. “We were naturally apprehensive about starting afresh. But you can really feel the community growing here, even though it’s a completely new development. And that is certainly easier with a dog. People always want to come and meet Harry – he’s a great conversation starter!” “This is definitely a forever home for us now, and we couldn’t be happier with the way it’s turned out,” says Eddie. Take a look at homes currently for sale in Cross Trees Park Share this Share on Facebook Share on Twitter https://www.rightmove.co.uk/moving-stories/eddie-jayne-downsize-new-home/?utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=sharing&utm_campaign=moving-stories Page link copied! More moving stories... The flexibility of renting is perfect for the kids and me How Alice single-handedly got more space for her family. Go to article Discover how these friends went from best mates to flat mates Amy and Lily teamed up to find their dream rental home. Go to article Sponsored Sponsored Moving to a retirement community was our right move Selling their home of 60 years was the start of a new era. Go to article View all moving stories Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Resources Where can I live? Schools Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Mobile apps Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London London stations Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Agents and Developers Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho