Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 29 2 29 2 Carlton Terrace, Edinburgh See map Offers Over £2,100,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Reduced on 02/06/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Terraced BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×3 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Property description 11 Carlton Terrace offers the rare opportunity to acquire a meticulously presented, fully restored and refurbished three-storey townhouse in one of Edinburgh’s most coveted addresses. This impeccable family home is second to none and is the epitome of modern Edinburgh living. It affords the best of both worlds, boasting an abundance of period features with its spectacular high ceilings, intricate original cornicing and sash and case windows, whilst also offering all modern luxuries. Arranged over three levels the property offers spacious family accommodation with five large double bedrooms and three bathrooms. The property benefits from exclusive access to the private Regent Gardens; occupying a triangular area on the flank of the famous Calton Hill, it is an 11-acre oasis with a full tennis court, putting green and adventure playground. Special Note: The lower ground floor apartment, being 11a Carlton Terrace, is held in separate ownership and is available for purchase by separate negotiation. Subject to obtaining the necessary consents, it might be possible to reinstate both 11 and 11a into one entire townhouse with private rear garden. The flexibility of a divisible basement flat may also appeal to some owners. The current accommodation within 11a comprises - approx. 1,794 sq ft - Entrance Hall, Living Room, Kitchen, Principal Bedroom with En Suite Bathroom, Two Further Bedrooms, Shower Room, Numerous Storage Cupboards and South/West Facing Rear Garden. Please contact us for further information. Summary of Accommodation: Ground Floor Level: Entrance Vestibule/Hall, Open Plan Drawing Room/Dining Room and Kitchen/Snug, WC First Floor Level: Secondary Drawing Room, Two Double Bedrooms, Family Bathroom Second Floor Level: Principal Bedroom Suite, Two Double Bedrooms, Bathroom, Hall Utility and Hall Storage Cupboard Exclusive access to Regent Gardens boasting 11 acres of greenery whilst offering a tennis court, putting green, adventure playground and direct access to Calton Hill. These private gardens host annual seasonal events including family camp outs, fantastic firework displays, a summer fete, bonfire nights, BBQs and traditional carols by candlelight Parking is resident permit subject to modest annual fee Tenure - Freehold EPC - D Council Tax - Band H EPC Rating: D Council Tax Band: H Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Rating Graph Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Carlton Terrace, Edinburgh Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Edinburgh Waverley Station 0.7 miles Haymarket Station 1.9 miles Brunstane Station 3.0 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Rettie & Co, Edinburgh 11 Wemyss Place Edinburgh EH3 6DH Edinburgh's leading independent estate agency About Us Located in the heart of Edinburgh's New Town, the Rettie & Co. Head Office is set within a historic Georgian Townhouse. Our vibrant flagship office is home to more than 40 staff, including our Edinburgh sales, country house, farms & estates, development services and new homes sales teams. Dynamic Team of Local Experts Each of our teams based in Edinburgh offers unrivalled collective local knowledge a Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Rettie & Co, Edinburgh 11 Wemyss Place Edinburgh EH3 6DH More properties from this agent Call agent : 0131 381 1354 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference PER230006. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Rettie & Co, Edinburgh . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0131 381 1354 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho