Hello, Username Log In Sign Up Username My Words Recents Settings Log Out Games & Quizzes Thesaurus Features Word Finder Word of the Day Shop Join MWU More Shop M-W Books Join MWU Log In Username My Words Recents Account Log Out Settings My Words Recents Account Log Out Est. 1828 Dictionary Definition Definition Synonyms Example Sentences Word History Entries Near Cite this Entry Citation Share Kids Definition Kids More from M-W Show more Show more Citation Share Kids More from M-W Save Word To save this word, you'll need to log in. Log In courageous adjective cou·​ra·​geous kə-ˈrā-jəs Synonyms of courageous : having or characterized by courage : brave a courageous soldier a courageous decision courageously adverb courageousness noun Synonyms bold brave dauntless doughty fearless gallant greathearted gutsy gutty heroic heroical intrepid lionhearted manful stalwart stout stouthearted undauntable undaunted valiant valorous See all Synonyms & Antonyms in Thesaurus Example Sentences She was a courageous woman who wasn't afraid to support unpopular causes. the courageous decision to quit rather than obey an illegal order Recent Examples on the Web His willingness to be so open and honest struck me as not only courageous , but as evidence of the power of community to change lives. — Bari Glassman, Men's Health , 6 June 2023 Here’s to more authentic, vulnerable and truly courageous leadership! — Jason Murray, Forbes , 19 Apr. 2023 The elements represent our motivations, so think of fire signs as the most feisty of the bunch—ambitious, courageous , and brutally honest. — Women's Health , 12 May 2023 White was described by local officials as courageous and dedicated. — Aliza Chasan, CBS News , 10 May 2023 The publication was one of two finalists for the honor, which the prize board awarded to a reporting team from the Associated Press for its courageous and life-threatening reporting in Ukraine. — Austin American-statesman, USA TODAY , 8 May 2023 That invasion, and the courageous defense mounted by Ukrainian citizens, has been followed keenly in Taiwan. — Virginia Heffernan, WIRED , 21 Mar. 2023 Rachel is a courageous individual for taking on a leading global broadcaster that has lost its moral compass. — K.j. Yossman, Variety , 26 Jan. 2023 The 18-year-old again put in a solid, courageous performance against Real Sociedad at Camp Nou on Wednesday evening. — Tom Sanderson, Forbes , 26 Jan. 2023 See More These examples are programmatically compiled from various online sources to illustrate current usage of the word 'courageous.' Any opinions expressed in the examples do not represent those of Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback about these examples. Word History Etymology Middle English corageous, borrowed from Anglo-French corajus, from corage courage + -us, -ous -ous First Known Use 14th century, in the meaning defined above Time Traveler The first known use of courageous was in the 14th century See more words from the same century Dictionary Entries Near courageous courage courageous courage under fire See More Nearby Entries Cite this Entry Style MLA Chicago APA Merriam-Webster “Courageous.” Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary , Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/courageous. Accessed 17 Jun. 2023. Copy Citation Share Post the Definition of courageous to Facebook Facebook Share the Definition of courageous on Twitter Twitter Kids Definition courageous adjective cou·​ra·​geous kə-ˈrā-jəs : having or marked by courage : brave courageously adverb courageousness noun More from Merriam-Webster on courageous Nglish: Translation of courageous for Spanish Speakers Britannica English: Translation of courageous for Arabic Speakers Last Updated: 12 Jun 2023 - Updated example sentences Love words? Need even more definitions? Subscribe to America's largest dictionary and get thousands more definitions and advanced search—ad free! Merriam-Webster unabridged Can you solve 4 words at once? Play Play Can you solve 4 words at once? Play Play Word of the Day microcosm See Definitions and Examples » Get Word of the Day daily email! Words at Play Palter, Dissemble, and Other Words for Lying Trust us Skunk, Bayou, and Other Words with Native American Origins You've used more than you might think Words For Things You Didn't Know Have Names, Vol. 2 When 'thingamajig' and 'thingamabob' just won't do When Were Words First Used? Look up any year to find out Ask the Editors What Is 'Semantic Bleaching'? How 'literally' can mean 'figuratively' How to Remember 'Affect' and 'Effect' A simple way to keep them apart. (Most of the time.) Why Is There a 'C' in 'Indict'? And who put it there, anyway? 'Everyday' vs. 'Every Day' A simple trick to keep them separate Word Games Commonly Confused Words Quiz Vol. 2 A quiz to (peak/peek/pique) your interest. Take the quiz People of Interest Quiz Can you tell the "sommeliers" from the "spelunkers"? Take the quiz Name That Thing You know what it looks like… but what is it cal... Take the quiz Spelling Bee Quiz Can you outdo past winners of the National Spelli... Take the quiz Merriam Webster Learn a new word every day. Delivered to your inbox! OTHER MERRIAM-WEBSTER DICTIONARIES MERRIAM-WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY SCRABBLE ® WORD FINDER MERRIAM-WEBSTER DICTIONARY API NGLISH - SPANISH-ENGLISH TRANSLATION BRITANNICA ENGLISH - ARABIC TRANSLATION FOLLOW US Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Browse the Dictionary: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z 0-9 BIO GEO Home Help About Us Shop Advertising Info Dictionary API Contact Us Join MWU Videos Word of the Year Kid's Dictionary Law Dictionary Medical Dictionary Privacy Policy Terms of Use Browse the Thesaurus Browse the Medical Dictionary Browse the Legal Dictionary Browse the Kid's Dictionary © 2023 Merriam-Webster, Incorporated