Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 44 1 44 1 Chantry Road, Moseley, Birmingham, B13 See map Guide Price £1,450,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 02/06/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×7 BATHROOMS ×3 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 5 Key features Impressive detached Victorian house Driveway parking for 2-3 cars 7 Bedrooms 2 Family Bathrooms 1 Ensuite Bathroom Large Garden Spacious Open Plan Kitchen/Dining Room Gas central heating Moseley Sought After Area Property description A most impressive, detached, 7-bedroom, Victorian house set in mature grounds, opposite Moseley Private Park and within walking distance of the centre of Moseley Village. Moseley is a vibrant and popular area with its many independent bars and restaurants as well as excellent links into the city centre and Moseley train station due to open soon. With a host of original period features, this three storey property briefly comprises: reception hall, three large reception rooms, open-plan kitchen and dining area, utility area and downstairs WC. Five double bedrooms and 2 further single bedrooms, 2 family bathrooms and ensuite for the master bedroom. Cellar, loft, side passage, impressive garden and driveway for multiple cars. Built in the Victorian era, 27 Chantry Road is an impressive period family home set out over three storeys. The property sits back from the road with a large driveway for 2-3 cars. There is a trellis archway in front of an entrance to the side passage enclosing an electric car charger. Steps lead up to the entrance porch containing an inset doormat and leaded stained-glass windows. Ring doorbell system in place. HALLWAY: The hallway has a wealth of period features including; brass antique light switches, ceiling rose, wooden arch feature, and oak doors. Two radiators, slate flooring, and panelling underneath stairs. Doors to: front reception room, front dining room, rear reception room, open-plan kitchen/dining area, cellar and side passage. FRONT RECEPTION ROOM: The first reception room has front aspect bay windows. There is a large radiator, built in grey corner desk, ceiling rose, light fitting and carpeted floor. FRONT DINING ROOM: The dining room has a large front aspect bay window with leaded glass panels. Feature pine fireplace with a gas fire. Deep cornicing, picture rails, ceiling rose and wooden floor. REAR RECEPTION ROOM: Rear reception room with wooden double-glazed French doors and large rear aspect windows with leaded glass panel features. Large real fire with a pine surround, 2 radiators one with a decorative grill. Period features including cornicing, picture rail and ceiling rose. KITCHEN/DINING AREA: KITCHEN: The open-plan kitchen/dining area has a large kitchen island with pendant light fittings directly above. Ample storage and integrated fridge, separate integrated freezer, and integrated dishwasher. Large Rangemaster, large extractor hood and under counter lights. Stainless steel double sink in front of rear aspect sash window. Underfloor heating and spotlights throughout. DINING AREA: Original oak beams frame the dining area, underfloor heating and there is also exposed brick wall, and wooden bifold doors to patio area. There are 4 recessed floor lights, 2 hanging pendants and spotlights throughout. UTILITY: Utility area houses stainless sink with mixer tap built into worktop, fittings for washing machine and tumble dryer and underfloor heating. There are 3 square windows overlooking the rear aspect decked area. Door to side passage with stained glass feature. DOWNSTAIRS WC: Downstairs WC with BC Sanitan hand wash basin and BC Sanitan toilet. Square frosted window, two spotlights and underfloor heating. SIDE PASSAGE: Side passage with bricked flooring and roof sheeting provides ample extra storage and runs the majority length of the property. Gate access to driveway and gate access to garden. STAIRS TO FIRST FLOOR: Carpeted stairs with dark wooden banister and feature window between the sets of stairs leading to first floor landing. First floor landing has 2 radiators, inset wooden cupboard housing hot water tank and stained-glass ceiling light fitting. Wooden archway feature, carpeted floor and coving around. Doors to: family bathroom, master bedroom, second and third double bedrooms and walk in storage room. FAMILY BATHROOM: Family bathroom with oak flooring, 2 large heated wall mounted towel rails, spotlights, and two lights above large wall mounted mirror. Two sinks with storage underneath, roll top bath with overhanging mixer taps and handheld shower head. Walk in shower with rain showerhead. 2 frosted window panels and 2 clear panels on top provide ample light. MASTER BEDROOM: Master bedroom with plush grey carpet, rear aspect windows with lead feature panels. Fitted wardrobes running the width of the room, large feature wall mounted radiator. Coving and ceiling light fitting. Door to ensuite. ENSUITE: Recently refurbished ensuite housing WC, chrome toilet flush inset into tiles, integrated sink in unit, walk in shower with rain shower and handheld shower head. Mirrored cupboards above sink, extractor fan and rear aspect window. DOUBLE BEDROOM: Second double bedroom with front aspect windows with leaded glass panel features, carpeted floor, coving and ceiling light fitting. Door to walk-in storage room that is also accessible from the hallway. There is a ceiling light fitting and window too. DOUBLE BEDROOM: Third double bedroom with carpeted floor, front aspect windows with leaded glass panel features, and radiator. Pine surrounded fireplace and coving around. STAIRS TO SECOND FLOOR: Carpeted staircase with wooden banister leading to the third floor. Feature lead window between set of stairs. Second floor carpeted landing with one radiator, 2 feature ceiling light fittings and brass light switches. SINGLE BEDROOM: Single bedroom with large panelled side aspect window, feature wooden beam following slopes of roof eaves. Carpeted, ceiling light fitting and one radiator. FAMILY BATHROOM: Second family bathroom, black tiled floor and white tiled walls throughout with coloured mosaic feature strip. Shower cubicle with power shower, jets and handheld shower head. Bristan Colonial plumbing including WC, hand wash basin and separate bathtub beneath Velux rear-aspect window. Ceiling light fitting connected to the extractor fan and heated towel rail. Floor to ceiling airing cupboard with built in drawers below. Feature wooden beam across sloped ceiling. DOUBLE BEDROOM: Fourth double bedroom with 4 paned rear aspect window, dark wooden beams following the eaves of the roof, carpeted floor. One ceiling light fitting and one radiator. SINGLE BEDROOM: Second single bedroom with side aspect window and loft hatch above. Carpeted floor and one radiator. DOUBLE BEDROOM: Fifth double bedroom with front aspect window and feature iron curtain pole. Dark wooden beams, ceiling light fitting and carpeted throughout. Door to walk-in attic space. ATTIC: Housing Worcester Bosch boiler, the attic is well insulated, with a beamed ceiling and ample storage space. GARDEN: Patio area is slabbed and accessed by both the bifold doors and the French doors of the rear reception room. There are two wall-mounted orb lights and built up flowerbeds that slope upwards alongside the wooden stairs to the decked area. The splendid rear garden has an expansive lawned area flanked by mature trees and shrubs. The garden also contains a large decked area with wooden fencing surround. CELLAR: Cellar space accessed via wooden door from hallway and bricked steps down. There is exposed brickwork in an arched space on the left-hand side, and the larger section on the right-hand space is set up as a great storage area. 2 mesh vents to front aspect, electricity is connected and ceiling lights fitted. EXTRAS: Gas central heating and double glazed windows throughout. TENURE: We understand the property is FREEHOLD but interested parties should obtain verification from their own solicitor. Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Rating Graph Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: TBC Chantry Road, Moseley, Birmingham, B13 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Five Ways Station 1.7 miles Bordesley Station 1.6 miles Small Heath Station 1.7 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Nicholas George Ltd, Moseley 86 St. Marys Row, Moseley, Birmingham, B13 9EF Nicholas George Ltd is an independent company specialising in the letting, sale, and management of residential property. Our office is based in Moseley, however we deal with properties throughout Birmingham and the surrounding area. The company was established over 20 years ago, and our experienced staff are committed to offering an efficient and helpful service. More properties from this agent Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Nicholas George Ltd, Moseley 86 St. Marys Row, Moseley, Birmingham, B13 9EF More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 387 6547 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference NGL230035. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Nicholas George Ltd, Moseley . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 387 6547 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho