Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 12 12 Kent House Road, London See map Offers in Excess of £285,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 15/05/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Flat BEDROOMS ×1 BATHROOMS ×1 TENURE Leasehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Share of the freehold Garage Close to Sydenham High Street Top floor Loft space Property description SUMMARY Welcome to this charming one-bedroom property located on the desirable Orchard Court, Kent House Road. DESCRIPTION This well-maintained and beautifully presented flat boasts a comfortable and practical living space that would make an excellent first home or investment opportunity. As you enter the property, you are greeted by a bright and airy hallway that leads to all the rooms in the apartment. The living room is a generous size, with plenty of natural light and space for a comfortable sofa and dining table. The modern kitchen is integrated with high-quality appliances and ample storage space, making it perfect for those who enjoy cooking. The bedroom is a good size, providing ample space for a double bed and wardrobe. The bathroom is fully tiled and comprises a modern white suite with a bathtub, shower, and WC. The property benefits from gas central heating and double glazing throughout, ensuring you stay warm and comfortable throughout the year. There is also an allocated garage space included, adding to the convenience of this property. Located in a sought-after residential area, this property is within easy reach of all the amenities of Sydenham and the surrounding areas. The transport links are excellent with easy access to Sydenham Overground, Lower Sydenham & Penge East stations. In summary, this beautifully presented one-bedroom property on Orchard Court, Kent House Road, offers a fantastic opportunity for those looking for a comfortable and practical home. Early viewing is highly recommended. We currently hold lease details as displayed above, should you require further information please contact the branch. Please note additional fees could be incurred for items such as leasehold packs. 1. MONEY LAUNDERING REGULATIONS: Intending purchasers will be asked to produce identification documentation at a later stage and we would ask for your co-operation in order that there will be no delay in agreeing the sale. 2. General: While we endeavour to make our sales particulars fair, accurate and reliable, they are only a general guide to the property and, accordingly, if there is any point which is of particular importance to you, please contact the office and we will be pleased to check the position for you, especially if you are contemplating travelling some distance to view the property. 3. The measurements indicated are supplied for guidance only and as such must be considered incorrect. 4. Services: Please note we have not tested the services or any of the equipment or appliances in this property, accordingly we strongly advise prospective buyers to commission their own survey or service reports before finalising their offer to purchase. 5. THESE PARTICULARS ARE ISSUED IN GOOD FAITH BUT DO NOT CONSTITUTE REPRESENTATIONS OF FACT OR FORM PART OF ANY OFFER OR CONTRACT. THE MATTERS REFERRED TO IN THESE PARTICULARS SHOULD BE INDEPENDENTLY VERIFIED BY PROSPECTIVE BUYERS OR TENANTS. NEITHER SEQUENCE (UK) LIMITED NOR ANY OF ITS EMPLOYEES OR AGENTS HAS ANY AUTHORITY TO MAKE OR GIVE ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY WHATEVER IN RELATION TO THIS PROPERTY. Brochures PDF Property Particulars Full Details Read more Tenure: Leasehold You buy the right to live in a property for a fixed number of years, but the freeholder owns the land the property's built on. Read more about tenure type in our glossary page. GROUND RENT A regular payment made by the leaseholder to the freeholder, or management company. Read more about ground rent in our glossary page. £0 per year ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE A regular payment for things like building insurance, lighting, cleaning and maintenance for shared areas of an estate. They're often paid once a year, or annually. Read more about annual service charge in our glossary page. £1000 LENGTH OF LEASE How long you've bought the leasehold, or right to live in a property for. Read more about length of lease in our glossary page. 988 years left Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: C Kent House Road, London Approximate location Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Lower Sydenham Station 0.4 miles Penge East Station 0.5 miles Sydenham Station 0.5 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Barnard Marcus, Sydenham 13 Sydenham Road, London, SE26 5EX Choose your local Sydenham Barnard Marcus office… We’re a long-established estate agency brand; in fact Barnard Marcus has been trading since 1979, so you can trust we are experts in our field. If you need a little more convincing here’s a few more reasons to choose Barnard Marcus as your estate agent… >> Your local Barnard Marcus team in Sydenham Our team know the area and the marketplace. Most of our staff members live in the surrounding areas so we are your local experts Read more More properties from this agent Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Barnard Marcus, Sydenham 13 Sydenham Road, London, SE26 5EX More properties from this agent Call agent : 020 3840 3720 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference SYD102474. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Barnard Marcus, Sydenham . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 020 3840 3720 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho