Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Share this Share on Facebook Share on Twitter https://www.rightmove.co.uk/moving-stories/katie-woods-forever-home/?utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=sharing&utm_campaign=moving-stories Page link copied! Transforming a house into our forever home was our right move Share this Share on Facebook Share on Twitter https://www.rightmove.co.uk/moving-stories/katie-woods-forever-home/?utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=sharing&utm_campaign=moving-stories Page link copied! Katie and her husband Chris aren’t new to moving home. They’d lived in the same house in Chapel Allerton for 10 years before falling pregnant with their fourth child, which meant they needed to upsize. Next, they spent the five years renovating another home, affectionately known as the ‘Peach Palace’. After Katie fell in love with renovating, she quit her job as a dentist, sharing her renovation journey full time on her account, @comedowntothewoods. What started as showing a few before and afters, turned into a journey of creative opportunity. Katie found an outlet to channel her passion for colourful features, patterns, and a deep-seated need to make a happy home. She’s now renowned for her great ideas, colourful features, and sharing decorating advice with her followers. She says: “I’d never done a big project before and I had no idea it would give me a taste for renovation, and a new career”. Katie loved turning a house into a home so much that in March 2022, they were prepared to say “goodbye” to their family home, and “hello” to another project. Finding their dream home with Rightmove “We were really happy in our ‘Peach Palace’ home, but I was getting itchy feet, so I’d been exploring homes that would make good renovation projects on Rightmove”, says Katie. It was crucial they stayed local to their previous home: “We didn’t want to have to have the boys change school, or move them away from their friends. We also don’t have family nearby: friends are our lifeline, so we wanted to stay close to them”. So they used the Rightmove app to define their search area. “We were searching in a small area, on account of not wanting to move too far”. Drawing a search made it easy to see exactly which homes were available in the area they’d be willing to move to. And that’s when Katie found the renovation home of dreams, with so much character and potential. With four kids and their big hairy dog, Ziggy, Chris and Katie knew this renovation project was going to be a big undertaking. But it was too special to say no to. “We always thought we had one more project in us, and I just knew she was the one. We were incredibly happy where we were, but there was something about this house that meant I just couldn’t stop thinking about her. I booked a viewing and that was it: we were hook, line, and sinkered.” Katie and Chris made an offer right after their viewing, but it wasn’t accepted, as they hadn’t sold their own house. “We put ours on the market, but in the meantime, the seller’s circumstances changed: they needed to sell the house urgently, and they ended up accepting an offer from a cash buyer that was less than what we had offered. We went away, licked our wounds, took our house off the market and tried to forget about it.” Spoiler alert: they didn’t forget about it. The sale went through, but the new buyer never moved in. They kept finding themselves taking detours on walks and lingering outside, wondering what on earth had gone on. We were incredibly happy where we were, but there was something about this house that meant I just couldn’t stop thinking about her. Then out of the blue, 4 months later, someone had dropped us a letter saying that if we ever wanted to sell our house, they’d love to buy it. And around the same time, our dream house came back up for sale. The stars seemed to have aligned and we were crazy excited but as we all know, it never goes smoothly does it. The house came back onto the market above what our maximum offer was. We were gutted, and walked away with more wound licking. It went to best and final offers – we bid again, but another cash buyer was successful. The cash buyer didn’t end up getting it, someone else came along and offered more and he went with them but a few months down the line, that sale fell through and he came back to us. Finally, after nearly 2 years, our offer was accepted. It’s been a long hard slog and we never truly believed that it would be our home, but we’re so glad it is. Preparing for the next renovation project Now, having lived in their home for 6 months, they’re starting to think about how they want to renovate their home. “I think it’s important you experience and feel a house before you renovate it. You want to get a sense of where the light falls in different seasons, where people congregate, where they spend most of their time. For us, everyone gathers in the kitchen – it’s the heart of the house. Whether it’s with family or with friends, everyone is gets together in this bustling space.” The kitchen is quirky, with the previous owner being a small older woman, so the worktops and cupboards were modified to be very short. “We thought living in a space that was missing our identity when we moved in would be hard. We realised that home isn’t about the stuff in your home. Home is a feeling.” A home that’s loved by the local community It was clear to Katie that the home was treasured by the local community, and she wanted to reassure them that she would cherish it, too: “The neighbours were worried that we were going to turn the house into flats! I let them know we wanted to keep a lot of the original period features of the home, and that it’s really important to me that this home kept its rich history.” Katie loved the historic features of the house that give a glimpse into its past, like the old Victorian servants bells still present on the walls and the floors. Built in 1897, the beautiful arts and crafts house ticked so many of the family’s boxes. It was as much about the outdoor space as it was about the inside. They always knew they wanted to be surrounded by trees, and for their kids to have a place to run around and explore. “Having room, particularly for my growing boys, was important, so when we found the garden here, we knew it was the one.” Some advice for people who don’t know where to start? It can feel really scary to make a decision as big as moving home. Katie found it helpful to take some time to think about what the family’s wants and needs were, including the “non-negotiables”. “Breaking the steps down into those smaller manageable pieces, and making those mini moves at your own pace, makes everything much easier. Firstly, I try and look past the decor if it’s not to my taste. You can turn that into an opportunity to change to make it exactly how you want it to be. And it was really important to us to find the right estate agent . Ask your friends and family for recommendations, and get their honest opinion. The agent that we used was phenomenal: genuinely, we couldn’t have done it without them. They kept us calm when it felt like it was all going wrong, and worked tirelessly to sell ours. View this post on Instagram A post shared by Rightmove (@rightmoveuk) The first step is always the hardest, so ease yourself in gently with some small mini moves. Moving home is huge, so if you’re feeling overwhelmed them make sure you take baby steps: it’s not a race and sometimes – as was the case with us! – good things come to those who wait.” To help others see how they could break down their home move, Katie partnered with Rightmove to share her story in our mini moves campaign. Take a closer look at our helpful guides and tools to help you take the first step towards your home move. Share this Share on Facebook Share on Twitter https://www.rightmove.co.uk/moving-stories/katie-woods-forever-home/?utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=sharing&utm_campaign=moving-stories Page link copied! More moving stories... Redecorating my rental home was right for me As an interior designer, Salsabai had to put her own stamp on her Edinburgh flat. Go to article Our new life on the Cornish coast The couple moved from London to the tiny fishing village of Newlyn in Cornwall almost two years ago. Go to article Pushing the boundaries of my comfort zone was my right move Fours years after graduating from university, and moving back to the family home, Natalie was adamant that it was time for her to move out and leave her three-hour commute behind. Go to article View all moving stories Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Resources Where can I live? Schools Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Mobile apps Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London London stations Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Agents and Developers Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho