My Foxtons Menu Buy Sell Rent Landlords Auctions House prices Inspiration About Contact Valuation Our services Home Help Property Fraud You are not logged in. Log in / Register Property Fraud Fraudsters are becoming ever more inventive in committing fraud Property owners are now considered a risk target. Protect yourself. Ask us a question Property fraud can happen to anyone in many ways Properties that are either vacant, tenanted, being refurbished or mortgage free are considered more vulnerable to fraud, as well as mortgage free properties, but those with mortgages are still targeted. Fraudsters may attempt to acquire ownership of a property either by using a forged document to transfer it into their own name, or by impersonating the registered owner. Many homeowners will be unaware that information held with the Land Registry is available to view by anyone through the Land Registry website. Unfortunately this includes fraudsters, who can easily find out who owns a property, their correspondence address, lender details and even samples of their signature. What can I do to protect my property? There are a couple of very simple measures which are recommended by both the Land Registry and Action Fraud that you can take to safeguard your property: Register an Anti-Fraud Restriction on your property title The best option available which will block any changes to your register is where an Anti-Fraud Restriction is registered with the Land Registry to reduce the risk of property fraud. This means you can stop Land Registry registering a sale or mortgage on your property unless a solicitor or conveyancer certifies the application was made by you. Having a restriction also serves as a 'burglar alarm', deterring fraudsters when they are searching for properties to target. Anti-fraud property alerts from Land Registry If your property is registered with Land Registry you also can now sign up to their free property monitoring service. This means if someone applies to change the register of your property or if certain activities occur on your monitored property, you will receive an email alert. It is important to note this option will not automatically block any changes made to the register but will alert you allowing you to take any necessary action. However, it could be a retrospective action if there is a delay in attending to the alert communication. ​More information can be found at the Land Registry website If you find yourself the victim of vendor fraud, taking legal action to recover your losses can be a complex, timely and expensive process, therefore prevention may turn out to be the best cure. Right to Rent Understand the requirements Learn more Licensing Landlord responsibilities Learn more AML Proving your identity Learn more Property Fraud Help protect yourself Learn more We value your privacy We use necessary cookies to make our website work and we'd like to use other cookies to give you the most relevant experience. Click “Accept all” to agree to all cookies, or for more options click on “Change Settings”. For more information see our cookie policy Accept All Change Settings Privacy and Cookies Policy Introduction Strictly necessary Functionality cookies Performance cookies Performance cookies Performance cookies let us collect information about how the website is used. For example, we may record what pages are visited most. This data allows us to see where we could optimise the website and make it more efficient. Foxtons: tbp, twp2, tws. tco, referrer Foxtons uses performance cookies to help understand how our visitors use the website and how we can improve our website. We also host the following third-party solutions, which may set the following cookies: Google Analytics: _ga, _gat, _gat_UA-<TOKEN>, utmx, utmxx Google Analytics cookies are used to distinguish users and sessions and gather usage data related to your visit to our website so we can improve our website. AddThis: _atssc, _atuvc, _atuvs, _ Some pages may have the AddThis social plugin to allow you to share pages to your social network and for Foxtons to view reports on which pages were shared and how. Crazyegg: _ceir, is_returning, _CEFT, _ceg.s, _ceg.u, s, u, cer.s, cer.v Crazyegg is a third-party optimisation solution which helps us to test, analyse and improve each user's experience on the website based on their online behaviour. Functionality cookies Functionality cookies allow the website to remember settings such as the screen size, which lets us serve the right content without overloading any network or device capacity. mortgage - Stores your mortgage settings for use across the website. recent - Stores information of the last pages you have viewed. screen - Stores the screen size of the device that you are viewing our website on. This allows us to serve the right content for the device you are using without overloading your network and preserving best layout. Strictly necessary cookies Strictly necessary cookies allow you to log into your account and view account details without a need to log in again every time you navigate to subsequent page. These cannot be disabled. foxtons_session - Stores information about whether you are logged in into your account or not. visit_secure_token2 (session) - Stores information necessary to access your account. cookie_policy_displayed - Stores information about the cookie policy declaration. search - Stores your preferences as to how you prefer your results to be displayed i.e display 10 properties per page and price filter ‘from highest to lowest'. is_logged_in - Recognize when a user is logged in, to allow access to restricted areas of the site. What are cookies? To make your experience visiting the Foxtons website as simple and convenient as possible we place small data files known as "cookies" on your computer. This practice is used by many websites. Cookies are created when your browser loads the website. The website sends information to the browser which then creates a text file. Cookies are stored on your device for various periods of time, from as short time as the duration of your browsing session to several months. Every time you come back to the website, the browser retrieves and sends cookies to the server, which helps to improve your experience of the website by: Remembering settings, so you don't have to re-enter them every time you visit Remembering your last properties and searches, helping you to keep on top of new listings Measuring use of the website so that we can see where we can improve You can manage and/or delete these small files from your device, but please be aware that this will limit the functionality that we are able to offer to you. Allow all cookies Save preferences Find your next home Search Unlock the true value of your home Get a valuation Lettings & Property Management New to Foxtons? Instruct us Existing customers Login to My Foxtons Explore news articles, area guides and interior design trends Setting the standard in estate agency We combine best-in-class people and technology to set the standard for service in estate agency Find your nearest office Find your nearest office Our Services Setting the standard in estate agency First time buyers How much can I borrow? Guide to buying Moving home How much is my home worth? Register with Foxtons Find a property New Homes availability Asia Pacific Help for buyers Advantages of choosing Foxtons Mortgages Conveyancing Stamp Duty calculator Why buy a new build? Property Surveys and Lease Extensions Our services Sell your home Foxtons Private Office How much is your home worth? Book a valuation appointment Help Help & Guides Contact us Rental searches Lettings Short lets Corporate relocation Student accommodation Tenant advice Guide to renting Right to Rent Why use Foxtons? Area guides Your tenancy Register with Foxtons My tenancy in My Foxtons Fees & terms Tenant support Our services Find tenants Property Management Specialist services Short lets Help being a landlord Help & Guides Buy to Let Mortgages Property inspiration Blog Interior Design Local life Area guides Schools Let's get social Facebook Twitter Instagram Our company About us Our history Investor Relations Careers Inside Foxtons News from Foxtons Foxtons' Minis Testimonials Social Media Community Community Environment People Our services Register to find a new home Valuation New Homes Corporate Relocations Customer services Opening hours Existing Lettings Feedback Complaints Internal enquiries Press Reports Recruitment Investor Relations All other enquiries Buying and Selling Buying New Homes Selling Landlords and Renting Landlords Property Management Renters Short lets Specialist Services B2R & Institutional PRS Foxtons Private Office Corporate relocation Asia Pacific About Foxtons About Foxtons Estate Agent Sales jobs in London Property Management in London Tenancy FAQs Mobile apps Branch Finder Our estate agencies Central London estate agents East London estate agents North London estate agents South London estate agents Surrey estate agents West London estate agents Popular searches London property for sale London lettings London short lets New Homes in London Property intelligence Area guides House price reports Rental reports Home valuation service © Foxtons Estate Agents Investors Terms and Conditions & Privacy Policy Cookies Policy Sitemap