Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 37 1 37 1 Woodbourne Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B17 8DD See map £1,600,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 03/10/2022 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×6 BATHROOMS ×3 SIZE 3,379 sq. ft. (314 sq. m.) TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Executive Six/Seven Bedroom Detached Family Home Prestigious Location in Edgbaston Off-Road Parking With Double Garage Superbly Designed Studio Annex Landscaped South Facing Garden Excellent Links to QE Medical Complex and Birmingham City Centre Over 3300 Square Feet EPC Rating - C Property description An executive and immaculately presented detached residence situated in this sought-after location within the heart of Edgbaston. The enviable six/seven bedroom property provides over 3300 square feet of internal accommodation which combines a vast array of luxury living accommodation along with a fantastic annexe suite perfect for large families or individuals in need of bespoke and flexible living options. The property is set back away from the road with a large sweeping driveway and beautifully manicured front garden that stretches across the width of the property, it has double glazing where specified and provides gas central heating. The internal accommodation briefly comprises a welcoming entrance hallway that leads into the property providing access to a spacious and modernised breakfast kitchen and lounge area, with four additional reception rooms which offers flexible space to suit any individuals needs. A separate utility room completes the ground floor accommodation. The upstairs provides six well proportioned bedrooms which includes a master bedroom with en-suite as well as an additional family bathroom. The modern and superbly designed annexe has been built above the double garage to provide a spacious double bedroom complete with a Juliette balcony, with a wonderful open plan kitchen/ living space on the first floor. The garages provides parking for up to three cars and also provides fantastic storage both along with a gardeners WC, with up and over electric operated doors, power and light. And finally the property is complimented with a beautifully maintained tiered rear garden which offers a beautiful southerly faced aspect and is perfect for entertaining guests and relaxing. Location - The property is positioned on one of Birmingham's most renowned roads, within the prestigious Calthorpe Estate in Edgbaston. Conveniently positioned for access into Harborne and Edgbaston village respectively which provide a vast array of boutique stores and high street amenities, including high end supermarkets, award winning independent restaurants and eateries and excellent links to both Queen Elizabeth Medical Complex and Birmingham University, whilst local motorway networks are easily accessible. The property is notably positioned close-by to a number of excellent primary, secondary and prep schools are very close by such as the popular Chad Vale Primary school, but also near to Edgbaston High School for Girls, The Priory School and The King Edward Foundation Schools, along with Hallfield Preparatory School, West House, The Blue Coat and St George's Schools. Frontage And Approach - A block paved driveway provides space for multiple cars and leads directly to both garages, and the hallway and lobby entrances. There is a decorative front garden with lawn area, rockery and dwarf hedgerow boundary. Entrance Hall - A hardwood door leads into the entrance with decorative double glazed windows to front elevation, providing stairs to first floor and storage underneath, central heating radiator and access into Cloakroom - Partly tiled with a low level WC, vanity sink unit and central heating radiator. Lounge - With dual aspect double glazed decorative windows to the front and rear elevations and sliding patio doors out to the rear garden, two central heating radiators, feature fireplace with timber mantel, marble surround and hearth with an electric fire inset and doors into: Additional Dining Room/Study Room - With a double glazed window to front elevation and central heating radiator. Dining Room - A formal dining room with a double glazed bay window overlooking the rear garden with central heating radiator and door through to: Open Plan Kitchen Dining Room - A open plan space providing both kitchen and dining elements, the dining area provides two sets of double glazed patio doors out to the rear garden and central heating radiator. The kitchen area comprises oak wall and base level units with complimentary work surfaces and tiled splash-back, integrated double oven, grill and microwave with electric hob, integrated dishwasher and two fridges. Utility Room - With a double glazed window to front elevation, additional work surfaces with plumbing and space for washing machine, tumble dryer and additional fridge or freezer. A door leads into the lobby. Lobby - A secondary entrance into the residence which provides access to the utility room, garage and annexe. Family Room - With double glazed sliding patio doors out to the rear garden, central heating radiator, built in storage and shelving and decorative integrated fireplace. Rear Garden - The beautifully arranged garden is accessible from almost every room towards the rear of the property enabling a lovely contrast between indoor and outdoor living, the garden has a large block paved patio across the width of the plot which provides various different spots for relaxation or the entertainment of guests, with a central lawn, two garden sheds and a vast array of mature plants, bushes and trees throughout. A stream runs through the garden to a central water feature which compliments the garden perfectly, all enclosed with a fence boundary. Landing - With loft access, airing cupboard housing the hot water tank and doors into: Bedroom One - With a double glazed window to front elevation with built-in wardrobes and door into: En-Suite - Fully tiled with a double glazed obscure window to front elevation comprising low level WC, vanity sink unit, oval bath with mixer taps and separate shower above and chrome heated towel rail. Bedroom Two - With a double glazed window to rear elevation and central heating radiator and fitted wardrobes. Bedroom Three - With a double glazed window to rear elevation, central heating radiator and fitted wardrobes and drawer space. Bedroom Four - With a double glazed window to rear elevation, central heating radiator and access into Annexe. Bedroom Five - With a double glazed window to front elevation, central heating radiator and currently used as an office. Family Bathroom - Partly tiled with a double glazed obscure window to front elevation, comprising low level WC, pedestal wash hand basin, bath with mixer taps and separate shower above and central heating radiator. Annexe - Designed and built above the garage, this excellent self contained living space can be reconfigured to another bedroom or used as it is currently as a separate dwelling. Bedroom Six - With a double glazed patio doors to the Juliet balcony overlooking the rear garden, with built-in wardrobes and vertical central heating radiator. Open Plan Living Kitchen - There are two double glazed windows to the front elevation, a vertical central heating radiator, a staircase down towards the lobby entrance and garage. There is ample space for living and dining room furniture and provides an open plan kitchen living element. This can also be used to create an additional seventh bedroom. Kitchen Area - With wall and base level units, complimentary work surfaces with sunken sink and drainer and splash back tiling. Integrated oven and hob with extractor above, integrated microwave and washing machine. Jack & Jill Shower Room - Partly tiled comprising low level WC, vanity sink unit with walk-in shower cubicle and chrome heated towel rail. Garages - A fantastic space with electric up and over doors, power and light facility. Providing plenty of storage or for three cars with two being in tandem and a gardeners WC. Brochures Woodbourne Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B17 8DD Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EE Rating EI Rating Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: G Woodbourne Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B17 8DD Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode University Station 1.6 miles Smethwick Galton Bridge Tram Stop 1.6 miles Five Ways Station 1.8 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Hunters, Harborne 110 Station Road Harborne Birmingham B17 9LS Hunters Estate Agents Harborne opened back in July 2012 just over ten years ago, The Harborne office was opened by Andy and Simon and has grown year after year ever since. The backbone of the business has been built on a vast wealth of local knowledge of the property market combined with a superior level of consistent customer satisfaction. Fast forward to today and the office has now become one of the leading agents in the local area for sales, lettings, and property management. The family-r Read more More properties from this agent Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Hunters, Harborne 110 Station Road Harborne Birmingham B17 9LS More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 387 6551 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 31822637. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Hunters, Harborne . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 387 6551 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho