Home About Us Have Your Say Contact/Find Us News Work for us Coronavirus Guidance Volunteering Menu Home / Bedfordshire services / Bedfordshire children's services / Occupational Therapy / OT Leaflets (Translatable) / Development of Pencil Grasps Developing Pencil Grasps Getting started stage 1 of 3 Hand strength, grasp development through play Play dough / Theraputty– rolling, pinching, squeezing, pulling – encouraging him to squeeze together using one hand, retrieving pegs, small objects and placing into a container. Use a rolling pin to roll playdoh flat and cut out shapes using biscuit or animal cutters. Tweezer games – operation, bed bugs, crocodile teeth, avalanche fruit salad, feed the animals Tweezer activities – sorting objects / balls into colours, numbers, sorting into containers, using tweezers to pull out beads Construction Toys: Lego, kid n knex, magnetics, puzzles, marble runs. Squeeze clothes pegs or spring loaded paper clamps onto pieces of cardboard to make pictures Roll play dough / space putty and push straws or cocktail sticks to make a hedgehog Matching games using pegs Using pegs for learning games e.g sums on the pegs and attach to the correct card, or place the number of pegs on the card, colour match pegs with cards, place words onto pegs and use the too clip onto card to make a sentence, follow a sequence pegging the pattern along the line using pegs to secure it. Please also see out pencil skills advice sheet for further activity ideas and out fine motor skill advice sheet. Next Steps 2 of 3 Pencil grasp development As children develop their pencil grasps change: Most children naturally develop a pencil grasp that is comfortable for them and a variety of different grasps can be seen in any classroom. A pencil grasp only becomes a problem if the child complains of fatigue, pain in their hand, or has difficulty writing neatly and at a reasonable speed (as compared to their peers). The most efficient grasps are the dynamic tripod and dynamic quadrapod (see below). Right hand: Left hand: An awkward or unusual pencil grasp becomes more difficult to change as a child gets older; therefore it is important to encourage your child to hold their pencil with a grasp that: Positions the pencil between the thumb, index and middle fingers. Has the ring and little finger bent and resting comfortably on the table. Has the thumb and index finger forming an open space. Has the wrist extended slightly and the forearm resting on the table. Holds the pencil approximately 1-2cm from the tip. Allows their hand and fingers to move when writing and drawing. Getting There 3 of 3 Helpful strategies Show your child how to hold the pencil and help them to place their fingers and thumb correctly. Give your child feedback to help them become aware of their finger and thumb positions and praise them whenever they demonstrate a suitable pencil grip. Give your child pencils/crayons approximately 5cm long to encourage them to use a tripod grasp. Encourage your child to do lots of fun and interesting drawing and writing activities using different types of pens, coloured pencils, crayons and chalks so they are motivated to practice. Use an angled writing board to encourage correct wrist position and support their arm. Difficulty: Pencil Grip Recommendations: Hand Pain/Reduce Tension Wishbone grip Penagain Kush n Squish sensory grip Ridged comfort grip Ball development grip Jumbo ultra grip Comfort foam grip Finger Positioning Wrap pencil grip Stabilo EasyErgo pencil Tri-go Grip Stabilo easy original pen Mini Stubbi Grip Wishbone Grip Penagain Claw grip Sensory stimulation Kush n Squish sensory grip Improving grasp Handiwriter Standard Triangular Grip In this section Adults' services Bedfordshire Psychosexual Service Bedfordshire children's services Children's Continence Service Community Nursing Children's Community Nursing Service Children's Special Needs School Nursing Service Children’s specialist nursing at the Child Development Centre Children's Continuing Care Team Children's Community Eye Service Health visiting Your Child's Development Health visiting appointments Local groups for parents Childhood Illnesses and Accident Prevention Sleep Behaviour Starting Solids and Healthy Eating for Families Perinatal mental health Parentline Bedfordshire Antenatal classes Bump, Birth and Baby Translations Now You Are 2! ABC Beds and Luton Self-Weigh Guidance What If? Questions Children in Care Leaving and After Care Health Services Occupational Therapy Sensory Processing Awareness Training Sensory Processing Awareness Training - Translatable Page Development of everyday skills You make a Difference - Translatable video The Planning Wheel Planning Wheel - Presentation OT Leaflets (Translatable) Messy Play Pacing Postural Advice Handwriting Strategies Development of Pencil Grasps Age Development Tying Shoelaces Principles of basic seating The principles of seating School training & resources How to find Occupational Therapy information on websites Oral Health Improvement School Nursing Service ChatHealth Bedfordshire Information for schools Speech and Language Therapy Video Appointments Co-Production (Working Together) SEND Health Focus Week 2023 Baby Friendly Team - Supporting Infant Feeding Breastfeeding support in Bedfordshire Breastfeeding out and about Breastfeeding Buddies Introducing solids Bedfordshire Neuro Therapy Services Acquired Brain Injury (ABI) Neuro Rehab Team Workshops Tell us what you think of our site. Latest News Trust board public meeting – 17 May 2023 by Sarah Turner | May 11, 2023 Full story Industrial action between 30 April - 1 May by Sarah Turner | Apr 27, 2023 Full story Trust board public meeting – 22nd March 2023 by Sarah Turner | Mar 20, 2023 Full story Compliments and complaints Patient Experience "Seen very quickly. The nurse was very understanding, approachable and empathetic" - Luton community paediatrics Home About Us Have Your Say Contact/Find Us News Work for us Coronavirus Guidance Volunteering