Search Report a repair Contact us My Move Account Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Sell Property valuation Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Local Sold House Prices Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Looking to move? Get your property valuation Get your conveyancing solicitor Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations How much can I afford? - use our budget planner and find out Something need fixing - Report a repair Landlords Rental valuation Book an accurate lettings valuation Get an instant online valuation Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations Looking to let? Get your property valuation Get your property managed New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Looking to move? Get your property valuation Book your mortgage appointment Mortgages Mortgage Services Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Book your mortgage appointment About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection Branches Sales Amersham Hazlemere and Great Missenden High Wycombe Princes Risborough Land & New Homes Lettings Amersham High Wycombe Princes Risborough Fine & Country Fine & Country South Buckinghamshire Other departments Sales Progression Property Management JNP Handyman Services Head Office xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? My Move xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Branches xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" Book an accurate valuation Get an instant online valuation Report a repair - Fixflo Branches Buy Property Search Find property for sale Find new homes for sale Buying Services Why buy through JNP? Mortgages Help to Buy Conveyancing Property surveys Home Insurance Guides for buyers First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Useful information Budget planner Stamp Duty calculator Buyer calculators Buyer FAQs Buying glossary Industry regulations Sell Selling Services Selling with JNP Professional property marketing Local Sold House Prices Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Guides for sellers First time sellers guide The selling process Preparing your home for sale Useful information Seller FAQs Selling glossary Rent Tenant services Find property to rent Why rent through JNP? Permitted payments Contents insurance Protection insurance Existing tenants Report a maintenance issue What to do in an emergency Guides for tenants First time renting guide Tips for viewing a rental property Moving into a rental property During the tenancy Moving out of a rental property Preventing rental fraud Existing tenants What to do in an emergency Maintenance tips Damp, mould and condensation Useful information Budget planner Renting FAQs Renting glossary Industry regulations Landlords Landlord Services Why let with JNP? Landlord services and charges Investment services Buy to let mortgage Landlord insurance Rent & legal insurance Guides for landlords First time landlord guide Landlord compliance guide The lettings process Buy to let guide Houses in Multiple Occupation Overseas landlords guide Useful information Landlord calculators Landlord FAQs Landlord glossary Industry regulations New Homes Property search New homes for sale Guides for buyers Buying a new build Help to Buy Useful links for buyers Budget planner Buyer calculators Mortgages Developers Working with JNP Contact us Mortgages Book an appointment Mortgages Remortgaging Help to Buy Buy to let mortgages Help and advice Mortgage appointment checklist Mortgage glossary Budget planner Careers About us About us About JNP Our history Our community Our awards Join our team Working for JNP Current Vacancies Keep in touch Blogs and local news Contact us Industry regulation Industry Regulations & Client Money Protection You're in control We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. To learn more about how we use cookies, please see our Cookie Policy . You can manage your preferences now on this banner, or via your browser at anytime. Functional Active Inactive Analytical Active Inactive Non-essential Active Inactive Manage Accept Home Buy Buying guides Moving house guide Moving house guide Buyers guides First time buyers guide House viewing tips Moving house guide New homes guide Preventing property fraud Moving house guide Moving home, while no doubt an exciting time, can also be a period of great stress. Between moving all your belongings and getting your paperwork in order, there can be a lot to remember and get on with. To help you, we've put together a short guide to assist with planning your move. Our JNP sales progressors will keep you regularly updated as to how far your sale or purchase has moved on. Countdown to your move Moving home, while no doubt an exciting time, can also be a period of great stress. Between moving all your belongings and getting your paperwork in order, there can be a lot to remember and get on with. To help you, we've put together a short guide to assit with planning your move. Setting a moving date You will already have discussed target dates for completion but at the right time you will need to agree the actual date for your conveyancers to exchange and complete. Where possible we recommend keeping clear of peak times such as bank holidays, end of school terms and even Fridays. 4 to 6 weeks before the moving date Get and compare quotes from removal firms. Ask if you need to pay extra for insurance or packing. Ensure the removal firm is a member of the National Guild of Removers and Storers. Make sure that you read your contract so that you know what to do if any of your goods get damaged in the move, and check your household insurance. Make a list of everything to be moved and give a copy to the removal firm. Avoid peak times to move if possible, e.g. Bank Holidays, end of school terms and Fridays. Make a list of the utility companies you need to contact. Consider paying to have your mail redirected by the post office. Start packing anything that you won’t need before you move. Have a clear out and give to charity or bin anything you don’t need anymore 1 week before your moving date Buy or hire boxes if the removal company aren’t supplying them. Make a list of where the furniture is going to go in your new home. Pack boxes and then label the contents plus which room it needs to be delivered to – e.g. mark your label Books/Study Arrange for your telephone number to be transferred if you are moving locally or your final bill to be sent if you are not. Cancel any regular deliveries – e.g. papers and milk. Send out new address cards to friends and relatives. Defrost your freezers a couple of days before the move. Organise for final readings of your water/gas/electricity meters (this will require 72 hours’ notice). On the day Turn off all appliances. Put together an essentials kit that you can keep close to hand: Kettle, Tea /Coffee, Plates, cutlery, toiletries and toilet roll, cleaning materials, bed linen, important documents (passports etc.) keys to your new home, children’s favourite toys. Take final meter readings. Have a last look around to make sure you haven’t left anything behind. The Completion Your buyer's conveyancer electronically pays off the remaining balance of the purchase price to the seller's conveyancer. This is known as completion. Once the money is received by the seller's conveyancer, they will inform the estate agent that the keys to the property can be released. Once you have the keys you can now move in and start to enjoy your new home. If you have any queries on the day we will be there to help you. Previous - House viewing tips Next - New homes guide Useful information for buyers View all available properties Buy your next home with JNP Financial services for buyers Information about mortgages, conveyancing and insurance Buyer calculators Use our calculators to help with your budgets Useful information for buyers View all available properties Financial services for buyers Buyer calculators Book a valuation Contact your local branch My Move account Buy Find Property For Sale Land & New Homes Buying Calculators Rent Find Property To Rent Permitted payments Report a repair Sell Sell your property with us Book a property valuation Get an instant valuation Landlords Landlord services Service options & Fees Guides for landlords Services Mortgages Conveyancing Property surveys Helpful Links Careers Branches Privacy Notice Legal Information Accessibility Cookie Policy VAT Complaints Procedure Client Money Protection Anti Money Laundering information xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd" xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? JNP is a trading name, independently owned and operated under licence from LSLi Limited by AIG (KH) Ltd (company number 14772222), registered in England at 5 Brooklands Place, Brooklands Road, Sale, Cheshire, England, M33 3SD. Also trading as Fine & Country. We may refer you to recommended providers of ancillary services such as Conveyancing, Financial Services, Insurance and Surveying. We may receive a commission payment fee or other benefit (known as a referral fee) for recommending their services. You are not under any obligation to use the services of the recommended provider. The ancillary service provider may be an associated company of JNP.