LANGUAGE TRANSLATOR GAMES SCHOOLS BLOG RESOURCES More English English French German Italian Spanish Portuguese Hindi Chinese Korean Japanese More Log In English Dictionary Thesaurus Word Lists Grammar English Easy Learning Grammar Grammar Patterns English Usage Teaching Resources Video Guides Conjugations Sentences Video Learn English Video pronunciations Build your vocabulary Quiz English grammar English collocations English confusables English idioms English images English usage Thematic word lists English French German Italian Spanish Portuguese Hindi Chinese Korean Japanese English Dictionary Thesaurus Sentences Grammar Definition of 'unheeded' Word Frequency Share × Credits × unheeded ( ʌ nh iː dɪd ) adjective [ usually verb-link ADJECTIVE , oft ADJECTIVE noun , ADJECTIVE after verb ] If you say that something such as a warning or danger goes unheeded , you mean that it has not been taken seriously or dealt with. [ written ] The advice of experts went unheeded. He warned of the serious threat to global ecology which is going unheeded. ...a damning picture of lax banking standards and unheeded warnings. Synonyms: ignored , disregarded , overlooked , forgotten More Synonyms of unheeded Collins COBUILD Advanced Learner’s Dictionary . Copyright © HarperCollins Publishers You may also like English Quiz Confusables Synonyms of 'unheeded' Language Lover's Blog French Translation of 'unheeded' Translate your text Pronunciation Playlists Word of the day: 'chakra' NEW from Collins! English Grammar Collins Apps Word Frequency unheeded in British English ( ʌnˈhiːdɪd ) adjective noticed or heard but disregarded Collins English Dictionary . Copyright © HarperCollins Publishers Examples of 'unheeded' in a sentence unheeded These examples have been automatically selected and may contain sensitive content that does not reflect the opinions or policies of Collins, or its parent company HarperCollins. We welcome feedback: report an example sentence to the Collins team. Read more… He started to yell Jo-Beth's name as soon as he came within what he guessed was hailing distance, but his call went unheeded. Clive Barker THE GREAT AND SECRET SHOW ( 2001 ) The roar of spectators went unheeded in his heightened state. Aldiss, Brian SOMEWHERE EAST OF LIFE ( 2001 ) Trends of unheeded View usage for: All Years Last 10 years Last 50 years Last 100 years Last 300 years Browse alphabetically unheeded unheart unheated unhedged unheeded unheededly unheedful unheedfully All ENGLISH words that begin with 'U' Related terms of unheeded unˈheeded Source Definition of unheeded from the Collins English Dictionary Read about the team of authors behind Collins Dictionaries. New from Collins xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Quick word challenge Quiz Review Question: 1 - Score: 0 / 5 FARM ANIMALS What is this an image of? bull cow chicken donkey FARM ANIMALS Drag the correct answer into the box. sheepdog bull cow donkey FARM ANIMALS Drag the correct answer into the box. turkey sheep bull horse FARM ANIMALS Drag the correct answer into the box. alpaca duck pig bull FARM ANIMALS What is this an image of? goose alpaca sheep cow Your score: Check See the answer Next Next quiz Review Jun 17, 2023 Word of the day chakra (in yoga ) any of the seven major energy centres in the body SEE FULL DEFINITION SEE PREVIOUS WORDS Sign up for our newsletter Get the latest news and gain access to exclusive updates and offers Sign me up Latest Word Submissions UPF Jun 13, 2023 falooda Jun 13, 2023 bop Jun 13, 2023 decouple Jun 13, 2023 View More Submit Eight-letter words in Scrabble Eight-letter words containing the most common letters in Scrabble are the ones paying the biggest dividends. Here are a few likely suspects. Read more 7 differences between British and American English words for clothing Here are 7 words for clothing that have different meanings in American and British English. Read more What’s the difference between lucky and happy? In today's Learning English post we explain the difference between lucky and happy. Improve your English with Collins. Read more Collins English Dictionary Apps Download our English Dictionary apps - available for both iOS and Android. Read more Collins Dictionaries for Schools Our new online dictionaries for schools provide a safe and appropriate environment for children. And best of all it's ad free, so sign up now and start using at home or in the classroom. Read more Word lists We have almost 200 lists of words from topics as varied as types of butterflies, jackets, currencies, vegetables and knots! Amaze your friends with your new-found knowledge! Read more Scrabble score for 'unheeded': 13 Wordle Helper Stuck at Wordle? Try our helper to maintain your current streak! xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Quick word challenge Quiz Review Question: 1 - Score: 0 / 5 HOUSEHOLD Drag the correct answer into the box. highchair coffee table table radiator HOUSEHOLD Drag the correct answer into the box. coffee table vacuum cleaner dressing table table HOUSEHOLD Drag the correct answer into the box. bin mop bookcase table HOUSEHOLD What is this an image of? sofa bucket sideboard chair HOUSEHOLD What is this an image of? desk bin radiator bookcase Your score: Check See the answer Next Next quiz Review Dinna fash: 11 essential Scots and Gaelic words for Outlander fans With season 7 of Outlander landing this month, here are some essential Scottish words from the show. June 16, 2023 Read more Create an account and sign in to access this FREE content Register now or log in to access This page in English Italiano American Português 한국어 简体中文 Deutsch Español हिंदी 日本語 English Italiano American Português 한국어 简体中文 Deutsch Español हिंदी 日本語 Browse all official Collins dictionaries About Us Contact Us FAQS Related Links Advertise with us B2B Partnerships Collins COBUILD Collins ELT Dictionary API HarperCollins Publishers Word Banks Consent Management Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Do Not Sell My Personal Information Security © Collins 2023 LANGUAGE English English Dictionary Thesaurus Word Lists Grammar English Easy Learning Grammar Grammar Patterns English Usage Teaching Resources Video Guides Conjugations Sentences Video Learn English Video pronunciations Build your vocabulary Quiz English grammar English collocations English confusables English idioms English images English usage Thematic word lists French English to French French to English Grammar Pronunciation Guide Conjugations Sentences Video Build your vocabulary Quiz French confusables French images German English to German German to English Grammar Conjugations Sentences Video Build your vocabulary Quiz German confusables German images Italian English to Italian Italian to English Grammar Conjugations Sentences Video Build your vocabulary Quiz Italian confusables Italian images Spanish English to Spanish Spanish to English Grammar Pronunciation Guide Conjugations Sentences Video Build your vocabulary Quiz Portuguese English to Portuguese Portuguese to English Grammar Conjugations Video Build your vocabulary Hindi English to Hindi Hindi to English Video Build your vocabulary Chinese English to Simplified Simplified to English English to Traditional Traditional to English Quiz Mandarin Chinese confusables Mandarin Chinese images Traditional Chinese confusables Traditional Chinese images Video Build your vocabulary Korean English to Korean Korean to English Video Build your vocabulary Japanese English to Japanese Japanese to English Video Build your vocabulary TRANSLATOR GAMES Quiz English grammar English collocations English confusables English idioms English images English usage Thematic word lists French grammar French images German grammar German images Italian grammar Italian images Mandarin Chinese characters Traditional Chinese Spanish grammar Scrabble Wordle Helper Collins Conundrum SCHOOLS Home School Primary School Secondary School BLOG RESOURCES Resources Collins Word of the Day Paul Noble Method Word of the Year Collins API Learner's Dictionary: unheeded Collins English Dictionary: unheeded Example sentences for unheeded Word usage trends