Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Introduction Toggle Introduction subsection 1.1 Sacramental graces 1.2 Biblical references 1.3 Names for the sacrament 2 Administration Toggle Administration subsection 2.1 Relationship with the "last rites" 2.2 Established form 3 Eastern Catholic churches 4 See also 5 References 6 Bibliography Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Anointing of the Sick in the Catholic Church 3 languages العربية தமிழ் 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article is about the Anointing of the Sick within the Catholic Church. For the topic in other settings, see Anointing of the sick . One of the sacraments in the Catholic Church "Extreme Unction", part of The Seven Sacraments (1445–1450) by Rogier van der Weyden . In the Catholic Church , the anointing of the sick , also known as Extreme Unction , is a Catholic sacrament that is administered to a Catholic "who, having reached the age of reason, begins to be in danger due to sickness or old age", [1] except in the case of those who "persevere obstinately in manifest grave sin". [2] Proximate danger of death, the occasion for the administration of Viaticum , is not required, but only the onset of a medical condition of serious illness or injury or simply old age: "It is not a sacrament for those only who are at the point of death. Hence, as soon as anyone of the faithful begins to be in danger of death from sickness or old age, the fitting time for him to receive this sacrament has certainly already arrived." [3] Despite that position, anointing of the sick has in practice often been postponed until someone is near dying, in spite of the fact that in all celebrations of this sacrament, the liturgy prays for recovery of the health of the sick person if that would be conducive to his salvation. In the past it became increasingly administered only to the dying and so came to be called Extreme Unction (Final Anointing). [3] The sacrament is administered by a bishop or priest , who uses the oleum infirmorum ('oil of the sick'), an olive oil or another pure plant oil blessed by a bishop, to anoint the patient's forehead and perhaps other parts of the body while reciting certain prayers. It gives comfort, peace, courage and, if the sick person is unable to make a confession, even forgiveness of sins. [4] [5] [6] Introduction [ edit ] Sacramental graces [ edit ] The Catholic Church sees the effects of the sacrament as follows: As the sacrament of Marriage gives grace for the married state, the sacrament of Anointing of the Sick gives grace for the state into which people enter through sickness. Through the sacrament a gift of the Holy Spirit is given, that renews confidence and faith in God and strengthens against temptations to discouragement, despair and anguish at the thought of death and the struggle of death; it prevents the believer from losing Christian hope in God's justice, truth and salvation. Because one of the effects of the sacrament is to absolve the recipient of any sins not previously absolved through the sacrament of penance , only an ordained priest or bishop may administer the sacrament. [7] [8] "The special grace of the sacrament of the Anointing of the Sick has as its effects: the uniting of the sick person to the passion of Christ, for his own good and that of the whole Church; the strengthening, peace, and courage to endure in a Christian manner the sufferings of illness or old age; the forgiveness of sins, if the sick person was not able to obtain it through the sacrament of penance; the restoration of health, if it is conducive to the salvation of his soul; the preparation for passing over to eternal life." [9] An extensive account of the teaching of the Catholic Church on Anointing of the Sick is given in Catechism of the Catholic Church , 1499–1532. Biblical references [ edit ] The chief Biblical text concerning anointing of the sick is James 5:14–15 : "Is any man sick among you? Let him bring in the priests of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith shall save the sick man. And the Lord shall raise him up: and if he be in sins, they shall be forgiven him." Matthew 10:8 , Luke 10:8–9 and Mark 6:13 are also quoted in this regard. Names for the sacrament [ edit ] In the past, the usual name of the sacrament in official documents of the Catholic Church was Extreme Unction [10] (meaning final anointing ), a name attached to it as it was administered only to those near death. Peter Lombard (died 1160) is the first writer known to have used the term, [11] which did not become the usual name in the West until towards the end of the twelfth century, and never became current in the East. [12] The word "extreme" (final) indicated either that it was the last of the sacramental unctions (after the anointings at Baptism, Confirmation and, if received, Holy Orders) or because at that time it was normally administered only when a patient was in extremis (near death). [11] In the early 1970s the official name was changed to Anointing of the Sick to reflect Church teaching that the sacrament is to be conferred on those who are "dangerously ill". [13] The sacrament has also been known by various other names in Western Christianity throughout the years, including: the holy oil or unction of the sick; the unction or blessing of consecrated oil; the unction of God; the office of the unction. In the Eastern Church it is technically known as euchelaion (i.e., prayer-oil); other names used include: elaion hagion (holy oil), hegismenon elaion (consecrated oil), elaiou chrisis (anointing with oil), chrisma (anointing). [12] Administration [ edit ] Last Rites Catholic canon law indicates who may receive the sacrament: "The anointing of the sick can be administered to a member of the faithful who, having reached the use of reason, begins to be in danger due to sickness or old age." [14] If a new illness develops or the first illness relapses or worsens, the patient may receive the sacrament a further time. A priest may, on the basis of his pastoral judgment, administer the sacrament numerous times in cases of old age or chronic illness. [15] Like any sacrament, anointing of the sick can be given only to someone who is alive; however, as the precise moment of death is not known or defined with precision, someone may be anointed during a brief period after being declared clinically dead. The sacrament of anointing can be administered to an individual whether at home, in a hospital or institution, or in church. Several sick persons may be anointed within the rite, especially if the celebration takes place in a church or hospital. The celebration may also take place during a Catholic Mass . Relationship with the "last rites" [ edit ] When administered to those near to death, the sacraments of Penance , Anointing of the Sick and Viaticum (Holy Communion administered to someone who is dying) are sometimes called the last rites . What in the judgment of the Catholic Church are properly described as the last rites are Viaticum , and the ritual prayers of Commendation of the Dying, and Prayers for the Dead. [16] The normal order of administration of these three sacraments to the dying is: first Reconciliation (if the dying person is physically unable to confess, absolution is given conditionally on the existence of contrition), then Anointing, then Viaticum. Only a priest or bishop can administer the sacraments of Reconciliation and Anointing of the Sick, but a lay person may give a dying person Holy Communion as "Viaticum, the Last Sacrament of the Christian". [8] [17] Established form [ edit ] The oil used in the sacrament is usually olive oil , though other oils may also be used. [18] It is blessed by the bishop of the diocese at the Chrism Mass he celebrates on Holy Thursday or on a day close to it. In case of necessity, the priest administering the sacrament may bless the oil within the framework of the celebration. [19] In the Roman Rite of the Latin Church , the priest anoints the sick person's forehead and hands with oil (usually in the form of a cross), saying: "Through this holy anointing, may the Lord in his love and mercy help you with the grace of the Holy Spirit. May the Lord who frees you from sin save you and raise you up." He may also, in accordance with local culture and traditions, and the needs of the sick person, anoint other parts of the body, but without repeating the sacramental formula. This is the form established for the Roman Rite through the papal document Sacram unctionem infirmorum of 1972. The form used in the Roman Rite in the preceding period included anointing of seven parts of the body (though that of the loins was generally omitted in English-speaking countries), while saying (in Latin ): "Through this holy anointing, may the Lord pardon you whatever sins/faults you have committed by... ." The sense in question was then mentioned: sight, hearing, smell, taste, touch, walking, carnal delectation. [20] Eastern Catholic churches [ edit ] In the Eastern Catholic churches , the sacrament (or " sacred mystery ") of Anointing the Sick is administered using various liturgies often identical with forms used by non-Catholic Eastern churches . Adaptation or development of the liturgical forms used in the Eastern Catholic churches is overseen by the Congregation for the Oriental Churches , part of the Roman Curia . See also [ edit ] Catholicism portal Indulgence Simony Votive Mass References [ edit ] ^ "Code of Canon Law, canon 1004" . Vatican.va . Retrieved 2014-07-29 . ^ "Code of Canon Law, canon 1007" . Vatican.va . Retrieved 2014-07-29 . ^ a b Catechism of the Catholic Church , 1512 ^ "Seven Sacraments of the Church Compendium of the Catechism of the Catholic Church, 319" . Vatican.va . Retrieved 2014-07-29 . ^ "Anointing of the Sick" . Catholic Answers. Archived from the original on 2014-07-28 . Retrieved 2014-07-29 . ^ "The Sacrament Of Anointing Of The Sick" . Papalencyclicals.net. 30 November 1972 . Retrieved 2014-07-29 . ^ "Catechism of the Catholic Church, 1516" . Vatican.va . Retrieved 2014-07-29 . ^ a b "Last Rites explanation" . Beliefnet.com. 2011-02-17 . Retrieved 2014-07-29 . ^ "Catechism of the Catholic Church, 1532" . Vatican.va . Retrieved 2014-07-29 . ^ Chisholm, Hugh , ed. (1911). "Extreme Unction" . Encyclopædia Britannica . Vol. 10 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. p. 89. ^ a b Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church (Oxford University Press 2005 ISBN 978-0-19-280290-3 ), article "unction" ^ a b Catholic Encyclopedia (1913) : article "Extreme Unction" ^ [. https://www.vatican.va/archive/ENG1104/__P3J.HTM canon 997] of the Code of Canon Law; cf. apostolic constitution Sacram Unctionem Infirmorum of 30 November 1972; and Catechism of the Catholic Church, 1512-1513 ^ Code of Canon Law, canon 1004 ^ Rite of Anointing of the Sick , 102 ^ M. Francis Mannion, "Anointing or last rites?" in Our Sunday Visitor Newsweekly ^ "Catechism of the Catholic Church, 1524-1525" . Vatican.va . Retrieved 2014-07-29 . ^ "Catechism of the Catholic Church, 1513" . Vatican.va. 1972-11-30 . Retrieved 2014-07-29 . ^ "Code of Canon Law, canon 999" . Vatican.va . Retrieved 2014-07-29 . ^ Extreme Unction , "Actual rite of administration". Old Catholic Encyclopedia. << http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/05716a.htm >> Bibliography [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Anointing of the Sick (Catholic Church) . Council of Trent (1829). "Part II: On Extreme Unction" . The catechism of the Council of Trent . Translated by James Donovan. Lucas Brothers. Bellarmine, Robert (1847). "The sixteenth precept, on the sacrament of Extreme Unction" . The Art of Dying Well . Translated by John Dalton. Richardson and Son. Poschmann Bernhard SJ (1963). Penance and the Anointing of the Sick . The Herder History of Dogma. Fr. Courtney SJ (transl. from German). Freiburg - London: Herder - Burns & Oates. p. 257. v t e Sacraments , rites , and liturgies of the Catholic Church Sacraments Baptism Confirmation Eucharist Penance Anointing of the Sick Holy Orders Matrimony Eucharistic liturgies Divine Liturgy Divine Liturgy of the Presanctified Gifts Divine Liturgy of St. Basil the Great Divine Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom Holy Qurbana Holy Qurbono Mass Low Mass Missa Cantata Solemn Mass Pontifical High Mass Papal Mass Canonical hours , Liturgical hours Matins (nighttime) Lauds (early morning) Prime (first hour of daylight) Terce (third hour) Sext (noon) Nones (ninth hour) Vespers (sunset/evening) Evensong (Anglican Use Vespers) Ramsha (West Syriac Vespers) Compline (end of the day) Other liturgical services Asperges Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament Exorcism Funeral Requiem Liturgy of the Hours Procession Liturgical literature Agpeya Antiphonary Book of hours Breviary Roman Breviary Customary Euchologion Gospel Book Gradual Horologion Lectionary Liturgy of the Hours Divine Worship: Daily Office Martyrology Pontifical Roman Pontifical Psalter Missal Divine Worship: The Missal Roman Missal Tonary Roman Ritual Sacramentary Liturgical language Ecclesiastical Latin Liturgical use of Latin Liturgical rites Latin Church ( Latin liturgical rites ) Current Ambrosian Rite Rite of Braga Mozarabic Rite Roman Rite Mass of Paul VI Extraordinary Form Tridentine Mass Anglican Use Zaire Use Orders Benedictine Rite Carmelite Rite Carthusian Rite Cistercian Rite Dominican Rite Norbertine Rite Defunct African Rite Aquileian Rite British Celtic Rite Durham Rite Hereford Use Sarum Use York Use Gallican Rite Missa Nautica Missa sicca Missa Venatoria Pre-Tridentine Mass Eastern Catholic Churches ( Eastern Catholic liturgy ) Alexandrian Rite Armenian Rite Antiochene Rite West Syriac Malankara Byzantine Rite East Syriac Rite Malabar Catholic Church portal v t e Catholic Church Index Outline Glossary Lists of Catholics History ( Timeline Ecclesiastical Legal ) Early Church Jesus Ministry Crucifixion Resurrection Great Commission Apostles Succession Petrine primacy Church fathers Apostolic fathers History of the papacy Primacy Great Church Ante-Nicene Period Constantine First seven ecumenical councils Nicaea I Chalcedon Late antiquity Biblical canon Monasticism Middle Ages Islamic conquests Pope Gregory I Papal States Schism (1054) Investiture Controversy Crusades Schism (1378) Inquisition Universities Scholasticism Age of Discovery Modern era Protestantism Protestant Reformation Catholic Reformation Trent Thirty Years' War Enlightenment French Revolution Nazism Vatican II Communism Sexual abuse scandal Islam COVID-19 pandemic Theology ( Bible Tradition ; Catechism ) General God Trinity Kingdom Body and soul Divine grace Dogma Nicene Creed Original sin Saints Salvation Sermon on the Mount Ten Commandments Vulgate Official Bible Sixtine Vulgate Sixto-Clementine Vulgate Nova Vulgata Worship Ecclesiology Communitas perfecta Councils Ecumenism Four marks One true church Catholic Infallibility Mystici Corporis Christi People of God Three states Subsistit in In canon law Sacraments Baptism Confirmation Eucharist Penance Anointing of the Sick Last rites Holy orders Matrimony Mariology Assumption History Immaculate Conception Mariology of the popes Mariology of the saints Mother of God Perpetual virginity Veneration See also: Josephology Philosophy Natural law Moral theology Personalism Social teaching Philosophers Philosophy of canon law See also: Science Evolution Separation of church and state Relations Politics Saints Holy Family Mary Joseph Patriarchs Prophets Archangels Martyrs Doctors of the Church Evangelists Confessors Disciples Virgins Organisation ( Hierarchy Canon law Laity Precedence By country ) Holy See ( List of popes ) Pope Francis Ecumenical councils College of Cardinals List Advisers Roman Curia Dicasteries Synod of Bishops Properties Vatican City Index Outline Apostolic Palace Lateran Treaty Roman Rota St. Peter's Basilica Swiss Guard Vatican Museums Polity ( Holy orders ) Diocese Episcopal conference Eparchy Bishop Patriarch Major Primate Metropolitan Archbishop Diocesan Coadjutor Auxiliary Titular Emeritus Parish Priest Deacon Consecrated life Religious : Superior Abbot , Abbess General Provincial Prior, Prioress Grand Master Brother Friar Monk Sister Nun Hermit Novice Master Oblate Postulant Particular churches sui iuris Latin Church Eastern Catholic Churches Albanian Armenian Belarusian Bulgarian Chaldean Coptic Croatian and Serbian Eritrean Ethiopian Georgian Greek Hungarian Italo-Albanian Macedonian Maronite Melkite Romanian Russian Ruthenian Slovak Syriac Syro-Malabar Syro-Malankara Ukrainian Catholic liturgy Eastern Catholic liturgy Alexandrian Antiochian Armenian Byzantine East Syriac West Syriac Malankara Latin Ambrosian Braga Mozarabic Roman Paul VI Tridentine Anglican Zaire Culture Art Marian Artists Authors Church buildings Altarpieces Folk Library Museums Music Distinctions Role in civilisation See also: Criticism of the Catholic Church Anti-Catholicism Media Holy See Press Office Vatican Media Vatican News Vatican Television Center Vatican Radio Vatican Polyglot Press L'Osservatore Romano Acta Apostolicae Sedis Annuario Pontificio Religious orders , institutes , societies Assumptionists Annonciades Augustinians Basilians Benedictines Bethlehemites Blue nuns Camaldoleses Camillians Carmelites Carthusians Cistercians Clarisses Conceptionists Crosiers Dominicans Franciscans Good Shepherd Sisters Hieronymites Jesuits Legionaries Mercedarians Minims Olivetans Oratorians Piarists Premonstratensians Redemptorists Servites Theatines Trappists Trinitarians Visitandines Associations of the faithful Confraternities Lay Marian Youth Workers Third orders Saint Dominic Lay Carmelites Discalced Saint Francis Secular Military orders Fimcap Catholic Action Charismatic Renewal Communion and Liberation Sant'Egidio Focolare International Alliance of Catholic Knights Scouting Legion of Mary Neocatechumenal Way Opus Dei Schoenstatt Charities Aid to the Church in Need Caritas Catholic Charities USA Home Missions Relief Services CIDSE Pax Christi Society of Saint Vincent de Paul See also: Health care Schools Universities Catholic Church portal Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Anointing_of_the_Sick_in_the_Catholic_Church&oldid=1150193853 " Categories : Sacraments of the Catholic Church Anointing of the Sick (Catholic Church) Hidden categories: Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Commons category link is on Wikidata This page was last edited on 16 April 2023, at 20:24 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement Toggle limited content width