Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 24 1 24 1 Melville Street, Edinburgh, EH3 See map Offers Over £2,750,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 12/04/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Town House BEDROOMS ×6 BATHROOMS ×6 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 2 Key features 5 - 6 bedrooms 3 reception rooms 5 - 6 bathrooms Double Garage Garden Mews Restored Terraced Town/City Private Parking Property description The Townhouse This spectacular townhouse, built in circa 1825, is accessed via an attractive main door entrance at ground level. The entrance hall sets the tone, both in terms of the scale and the quality of the finish. On the ground level, the impressive kitchen/dining room is positioned in the front east facing room. The bespoke contemporary kitchen features a large island unit, ample storage including a traditional larder cupboard, Miele appliances and high-quality fixtures and fittings throughout. The charming sitting room is set to the rear of the property overlooking the garden and showcases lovely features including a modern fireplace and a connected private study. The ground floor is completed by a spacious cloakroom/WC. The elegant stairs to the upper floors are crowned by a beautiful new cupola which provides natural light through the centre of the house. To the front of the first floor, the drawing room is exceptional, providing incredible bright living space with three large sash and case window and a flexible entertaining area on a grand scale. The impressive master bedroom is located to the rear and benefits from a stunning en suite bathroom and a bespoke designed dressing area. On the second floor are three further well-proportioned double bedrooms and two bathrooms. The property is completed with the basement floor, that leads out to the private garden, with a guest bedroom, an en suite shower room and a sizeable laundry room at this level. The basement area has additional storage with two dry-lined cellars with electricity, water and lighting. To the rear is an attractive landscaped private walled garden, affording full afternoon sun. The garden has power and water connections installed and also feature lighting with night sensors. As well as benefitting from parking in the mews, an owner can apply for on-street resident parking permits with parking available at the front of the property. Mews one has been designed to provide garaging on the lower floor for the townhouse. Access of the rear mews lane from Chester Street, leads to this well-proportioned garage that is likely to fit two cars. There is direct access from the garage to the private rear garden that leads to the townhouse. The mews has a separate front door with a lobby and stair leading to the upper level which has been refurbished to a high quality and could be used as a home office or a studio apartment. The property has a kitchen and an a attractive shower room. * The brochure and home report apply to the full property at Melville Street but as per this listing, the property could be purchased in separate lots. If bought as a townhouse with mews 1, a small section of the garden would be demised to mews 2 in this arrangement.* Edinburgh International Airport is situated 7 miles to the west and there is also straightforward access to the city by-pass, the M9, M8 and M90 motorways and Edinburgh's Haymarket and Waverley stations are located nearby. Local amenities include the Drumsheugh Private Swimming Baths, the Edinburgh Sports Club, the Dean Tennis Club, numerous yoga studios and the Modern and Dean Art Galleries. There is easy access to the impressive Water of Leith walkway leading to the Edinburgh cycle path network, whilst the open spaces of the Royal Botanic Gardens and Inverleith Park are also within walking distance. The area is particularly popular with families, with schools including St. George's School for Girls, Erskine Stewart's Melville Schools, Fettes College and The Edinburgh Academy all nearby. Brochures More Details 47 Melville Street - Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. Generated EPC Graph. Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: H Melville Street, Edinburgh, EH3 Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Haymarket Station 0.3 miles Edinburgh Waverley Station 1.0 miles Slateford Station 1.9 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Knight Frank, Edinburgh 80 Queen Street, Edinburgh, EH2 4NF About us About us We are passionate about property. Our foundations are built on supporting clients in one of the most significant decisions they'll make in their lifetime. As your partners in property, we act with integrity and are here to help you achieve the very best price for your home in the quickest possible time. We offer a range of services for your property requirements. If you are selling, buying or letting a home, or you need some frank advice and insight on th Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Knight Frank, Edinburgh 80 Queen Street, Edinburgh, EH2 4NF More properties from this agent Call agent : 0131 381 0405 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference EDN012300595. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Knight Frank, Edinburgh . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0131 381 0405 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho