Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 42 42 Woodbourne Road, Harborne, Birmingham, B17 8DD See map £1,450,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 05/05/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×7 TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Extensive home over 3200 square feet Located on highly desirable road 7 bedrooms With potential to extend/convert (STP) Set within a large plot Spacious drive and double garage No upward chain Wonderful southerly garden Convenient for Queen Elizabeth Hospital Excellent access to local schooling Property description An increasingly rare opportunity to purchase a well appointed 7 bedroom detached residence on one of the most prestigious and well regarded roads in Edgbaston. The accommodation, which extends to approx. 3,200 sq ft is set over two floors and comprises grand entrance hall, reception room, dining room, family room, breakfast kitchen, and utility on the ground floor, with master bedroom with en-suite and dressing room, six further excellent sized bedrooms and family bathroom spread over the top floor accommodation. The property benefits further from a spacious driveway providing ample parking to the front with a secure gated entry and front garden. There is also an extensive rear garden with a south-westerly aspect and a private outlook along with mature borders. In summary this impressive residence offers a fantastic opportunity for modernisation with a sizeable plot and well maintained home from which to further improve and potentially develop (subject to planning). The outlook to the rear is superb with a well tended mature garden and private southerly views. The internal space offers plenty of scope for reconfiguration to suit individual needs and the plot that the property sits within offers further scope should there be a desire to add further square footage. Edgbaston is an exclusive suburb of Birmingham, it is rich in history and being part of one of England's largest conservation areas. Much of Edgbaston comes under the control of the renowned Calthorpe Estate which is committed to preserving the quality and original character of the area and the properties within it, making this one of the most desirable and enjoyable places to live, it was voted number 47 out of 100 top places to live in the UK by a Sunday Times poll in October 2013. Birmingham City Centre is close by as Harborne High Street with M&S and Waitrose supermarkets, as well as a plethora of independent restaurants and coffee shops. Birmingham boasts some very good shopping with its Bullring Shopping Centre which includes a Selfridges store and the Mailbox development is also host to a range of designer shops. Broad Street and Brindeyplace are also nearby and have been developed and improved to provide excellent business and recreational facilities. Within a mile stretch can be found the International Convention Centre, Symphony Hall, and several excellent theatres. The Edgbaston Priory Tennis and Squash Club, Edgbaston Golf club, Warwickshire County Cricket Club, The Birmingham Botanical Gardens, Winterbourne Botanical Gardens and Martineau Gardens are situated close by as is the excellent Barber Institute of Art . Superb medical facilities in the area include the new Queen Elizabeth Hospital which provides state of the art medical facilities for the region. The Edgbaston and Priory Hospitals are nearby as are the City Hospital and The Women's Hospital on Metchley Park Road. A wide range of schools for children of all ages is available in the area both in the state and private sectors. They include Hallfield and West House Preparatory Schools, Edgbaston High School for Girls, The Blue Coat School, The Priory, St George's and the King Edward VI private schools on the Bristol Road. Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC 1 EPC 2 Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: G Woodbourne Road, Harborne, Birmingham, B17 8DD Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode University Station 1.6 miles Smethwick Galton Bridge Tram Stop 1.6 miles Five Ways Station 1.9 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Wentworth & Rose, Harborne 4a Albany Road, Harborne, Birmingham, B17 9JX Wentworth & Rose is an independent family run Sales and Letting agency with an extensive knowledge of Birmingham and the surrounding areas. Our aim is to provide an efficient and friendly personal service with the emphasis strongly focused on client care and attention to detail. We also provide a comprehensive range of other related services making us the ideal "one stop shop" to guide you through your move. More properties from this agent Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Wentworth & Rose, Harborne 4a Albany Road, Harborne, Birmingham, B17 9JX More properties from this agent Call agent : 0121 387 6490 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 621293. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Wentworth & Rose, Harborne . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0121 387 6490 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho