Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 62 1 62 1 Prestwich Park Road South, Prestwich See map £1,500,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 05/04/2023 PROPERTY TYPE Detached BEDROOMS ×7 BATHROOMS ×6 SIZE 5,317 sq. ft. (494 sq. m.) TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Key features Substantial Detached Home 7/8 Bedrooms (4 En Suite) 5 Reception Areas Beautifully Proportioned Rooms Ideal Family Home Double Garage & Driveway Property description Aubrey Lee & Co are delighted to bring to the market this substantial and beautifully proportioned family home situated on the most sought after road in the area, the property boasts seven/eight bedrooms with four En Suite bathrooms and five reception areas. A unique property which needs to be seen. The property was built circa 2007 and finished to the highest standards with marble flooring through most of the ground floor along with a matching staircase, each room is beautifully proportioned and there is still scope for extra living space if desired by incorporating the vast loft area with a fitted staircase which would easily offer a further three rooms. There is also a double garage and driveway with parking for multiple vehicles. The accommodation briefly comprises of:- Porch, Hall, Guest Wc, Lounge, Dining Room, Family Room, Kitchen, Utility Room, Study, Two ground floor bedrooms, Bathroom and to the first floor a generous reception landing, conservatory, Five double bedrooms (four of which have en suite bathrooms) , family bathroom, Loft area currently utilised as a gym and plant room along with a further potential bedroom. Gardens to the front and rear, Double garage and driveway. Viewings are strictly by appointment only and can be arranged by calling our office on . Location Situated off Bury New Road and occupying an imposed elevated position. Porch A bright space with marble floor and space for coats, double part glazed doors open to:- Hall An opulently proportioned entrance hallway where the marble floors continue through with under floor heating, the staircase leads upto the left which is also finished in matching marble and leads to a galleried landing. Solid dark wood doors open to all rooms some of which are part glazed and others of a bi-fold design. Guest Wc Consisting of a white suite a wc with matching washbasin/vanity unit. Matching plumbed child`s wc with child`s washbasin. Lounge - 6.51m (21'4") Approx x 6.5m (21'4") Approx A beautifully proportioned bright room ideal for entertaining, there are bi-fold doors to rear opening to the garden and French windows to front opening to a small balcony area. The room has a feature inset living flame fire. Dining Room - 7.49m (24'7") Approx x 3.94m (12'11") Approx Another bright rear facing room offering more than ample space for furniture and having French doors opening to the garden and internal door to family room and also to garden/sun room. Garden/Sun Room - 3.56m (11'8") Approx x 3.43m (11'3") Approx Rear facing room having windows to two sides, can be utilised to suit. Door to:- Family Room/Diner Kitchen - 9.96m (32'8") Approx x 5.64m (18'6") Approx A stunning open room accessed from hall along with dining room and garden/Sun room. As you enter from the hall there is a seating area with carpeting flooring and space for media unit, the room opens fully to the Diner Kitchen which is fitted with a white gloss wall and base units and contrasting black granite worksurfaces, centrally there is a island seating area which again has white gloss base units but with a white granite worksurface. Two sunken sink units with mixer taps, space for a range style oven with 6 ring hob and extractor hood above, integrated microwave, dishwasher, side and rear facing windows along with a door opening to the garden. There is also an internal door to:- Utility Room - 6.04m (19'10") Approx x 1.76m (5'9") Approx Fitted with a matching range of white gloss wall and base units with black granite surfaces, sunken sink unit and mixer tap, integrated oven with 6 ring hob and extractor hood above, plumbed and space for a washing machine and American style fridge/freezer. Study - 3.58m (11'9") Approx x 2.03m (6'8") Approx Front facing room fitted with a range of storage and desk furniture. Bedroom 6 - 4.63m (15'2") Approx x 4.54m (14'11") Approx Front facing double bedroom with a wall of fitted robes and drawers. French doors open to front garden. Bedroom 7 - 4.76m (15'7") Approx x 2.85m (9'4") Approx Rear facing double room which is again fitted with a range of fitted robes. Bathroom Consisting of a white suite of jacuzzi multi jet bath with shower attachment, matching wc and a vanity unit with his and hers sinks. Rear facing frosted window and towel radiator. First Floor Landing Reception - 9.66m (31'8") Approx x 4.38m (14'4") Approx A lovely bright space which is galleried over to the hallway, the area can be utilised to suit but is currently being used as an additional seating/Tv area which also air conditioning. Opens to:- Conservatory - 3.92m (12'10") Approx x 3.9m (12'10") Approx Another bright room which can be utilised to suit, French doors open to bedroom 2. Bedroom 1 - 6.46m (21'2") Approx x 5.82m (19'1") Approx Front facing primary bedroom with a wide range of fitted robes and dresser. Door to:- En Suite Consisting of a white suite of jacuzzi/spa bath, vanity unit with his and hers sinks, white wc, frosted window, tiled floor and walls, chrome towel radiator. Bedroom 2 - 6.69m (21'11") Approx x 4.94m (16'2") Approx Rear facing room which again offers more than ample space and has a range of fitted robes, French doors to conservatory. Door to:- En Suite Consisting of a white suite of spa bath with matching wc, vanity unit with his and hers washbasins. Tiled floor and tiled walls, frosted window and chrome towel radiator. Bedroom 3 - 4.6m (15'1") Approx x 4.29m (14'1") Approx Front facing double bedroom with Juliet balcony, the room opens out to a study area which also has a front facing window. Door to:- En Suite Consisting of a white suite of double shower cubicle with matching wc and red and black washbasin. Tiled walls and floor, frosted window and chrome towel radiator. Bedroom 4 - 4.34m (14'3") Approx x 2.79m (9'2") Approx Rear facing double bedroom with gloss fronted fitted robes. Door to:- En Suite Consisting of a white suite of double shower cubicle, matching washbasin and wc. Tiled walls and tiled floor, chrome towel radiator. Bedroom 5 - 3.3m (10'10") Approx x 2.82m (9'3") Approx Front facing double bedroom with ample space for furniture. Bathroom Consisting of white hot tub bath with matching sauna shower cubicle, wc and washbasin vanity unit. Tiled walls and Amtico flooring. Frosted window. Loft - 15.66m (51'5") Approx x 4.76m (15'7") Approx A great space which offers great scope for conversion, currently accessed by a pull down loft ladder but has scope for a permanent staircase to be fitted, fully boarded floor, three Velux roof windows and power/light. There is also a plant area housing the boiler and water tank. Door to:- Bedroom 8 - 6.45m (21'2") Approx x 3.05m (10'0") Approx Rear facing room with storage space into the eves. Garden To the rear of the property is a paved and artificial lawned garden with tiered shrubbery bed borders. There is a paved patio seating area from the lounge and to one side of the property a tarmac area (outside the utility room) to the other side is an attached shed/storage area. To the front of the property is an elevated lawned garden and tiled steps down to the driveway which offers parking for multiple vehicles along with the integrated garage. Garage - 6.44m (21'2") Approx x 7.22m (23'8") Approx Integrated double garage with two up/over fob operated doors. The garage is fitted with power and light. Heating The ground floor has under floor heating along with wall mounted electric heaters. Windows Sealed unit double glazing. Council Tax Band G Tenure We understand that the property is Freehold. Notice Please note we have not tested any apparatus, fixtures, fittings, or services. Interested parties must undertake their own investigation into the working order of these items. All measurements are approximate and photographs provided for guidance only. Brochures Web Details Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. EPC 1 Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Band: G Prestwich Park Road South, Prestwich Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Prestwich Tram Stop 0.5 miles Heaton Park Tram Stop 0.7 miles Besses 'o th' Barn Tram Stop 1.1 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Aubrey Lee & Co, Prestwich 39, Bury New Road, Prestwich, Manchester, M25 9JY Aubrey Lee & Company was established in 1952 and has two branches in Prestwich & Milnrow, in the North West of England. There are also two, independently owned, associate branches in Blackley and Crumpsall. We specialise in the sale, letting and management of residential property and we are proud members of The Property Ombudsman Service (TPOS). As one of the area's largest independent Estate Agents, with more than 65 years combined experience in the Manchester property market, he Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Stamp Duty calculator I am... Select buying my first home buying my next home / moving home buying an additional property / investing £ Property price Calculate Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Aubrey Lee & Co, Prestwich 39, Bury New Road, Prestwich, Manchester, M25 9JY More properties from this agent Call agent : 0161 524 7229 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 6863_AUBR. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Aubrey Lee & Co, Prestwich . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0161 524 7229 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho