Skip to main content Subscribe Trial Offer Print copies & Digital access for only £1 Subscribe Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories Close Alert Fashion Grooming Culture Watches Recommends Lifestyle GQ Sports Fitness Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories Close Alert Subscribe Get the magazine plus an exclusive gift from BOSS Subscribe Now Fashion Grooming Culture Watches Recommends Lifestyle GQ Sports Fitness Cars Food & Drink Tech Politics GQ Sports GQ Shops GQ Editor's Club GQ Video GQ Heroes Follow us All products are independently selected by our editors. If you buy something, we may earn an affiliate commission. Fashion The best changing robes to make the beach your dressing room By Jessie Atkinson and Emily Peck 15 June 2023 From walking the dog to open water swimming, the best changing robes will keep you conveniently cosy from coast to country Friends, we made it: the time of outdoor swimming and changing robes is upon us. In the height of summer, the temperature in Brighton sea tops out at 17 degrees celsius, while Parliament Hill Lido exceeds 20 degrees even in June. Whether you're a hardy year-round outdoor swimmer donning trunks even in the dead of winter, or you're more of a fair-weather participant, you'll certainly be in want of a changing robe. It's true that one of the changing robe's main functions is to keep you warm after a cold dip in pond and pool, but there's still a need for the accessory even when it's warm. For wild water swimmers, surfers, stand-up paddleboarders and triathletes , the changing robe works as both a towel and a portable changing room. A warm, often tent-like piece of clothing, this is an item that should be used to swiftly replace a wetsuit or pair of swimming shorts , making it easy to whip your wet trunks off and get your dry boxers back on. And with many models featuring enormous pockets to help you keep your valuables high and dry, it's perfect for solo trips without the need for a gym bag . From the classic Dryrobe to many Dryrobe alternatives such as Red and Vivida, find our pick of the best changing robes bellow, as well as some more considerations ahead of pulling the trigger. Need something quicker? Here are some top picks… Best overall changing robe: Red Original EVO Robe Red Paddle Evo Robe £159.95 at Red Equipment We admire the luxury finish of Red Original’s EVO Robe, which has a soft-fleece moisture-wicking lining, stretch side panels for easy changing and a breathable and waterproof outer shell. It comes in a range of attractive colourways including Parker Green, Teal and Hawaiian Blue. Best lightweight changing robe: Passenger Escapism Sherpa Robe Passenger Escapism Changing Robe £120 at Passenger Cycling While its fleece Sherpa lining feels warm and waterproof exterior will keep you dry, the Passenger ‘Escapism’ Recycled Sherpa Lined Robe feels comfortably light and easy to wear. It also comes in a selection of on-trend hues including the season’s must-have Rust finish. Best premium changing robe: Vivida Puffer Robe Vivida All-Weather Puffer Robe £240 at Vivida All Weather Puffer While it’s on the higher price scale at £199, the Vivida All-Weather Puffer Robe looks good as a stylish and casual performance coat, which looks as good in the city as it does at the coast. Best affordable changing robe : Mystic Surf Poncho Mystic Surf Poncho £54.95 at Wetsuit Centre A towelling poncho built for summer months more than the lashing rain of the winter, this is the choice for those who want somewhere dry to change in public and nothing more. GQ's favourite changing robes at a glance… Best overall changing robe: Red Original EVO Robe, £159.95 at red-equipment.co.uk Best lightweight changing robe: Passenger Escapism Sherpa Robe, £120 at passenger-clothing.com Best premium changing robe: Vivida Puffer Robe, £240 at vividalifestyle.com Best affordable changing robe : Mystic Surf Poncho, £54.95 at wetsuitcentre.co.uk Best eco-friendly changing robe: Gorilla Robes ECO Changing Robe, £69.95 at amazon.co.uk Best changing robe for triathletes: Zone3 Parka Robe Jacket, £99 £49.99 at wiggle.com Best-looking changing robe: Föhn Adventure Robe, £95 at wiggle.com SKIP TO: Are changing robes worth it? | What’s the best changing robe in 2023? Are changing robes worth it? “Changing robes are epic and we have even used them in the past to slow hyperthermia during a paddleboard race,” says Saviour Aquilina of The Sup Store . “The best designs feel light and enjoyable to wear and will keep swimmers dry after coming out of the water. I find them invaluable in both summer and winter as they will save your dignity when you’re changing in or out of your water-wear in public. “They come in so many styles and colours that you can find a range of designs with an attractive cut and finish, which are as enjoyable to wear as your regular coat. As well as keeping my change robe close to hand near the shore, I wear it as an outer layer walking the dog on chilly, early mornings. It keeps me warm and makes me feel like I’m still in bed and wrapped up in my duvet! The waterproof finish also makes it ideal when it’s raining.” What’s the best changing robe in 2023? Just like choosing a regular coat, it takes a trained eye to hunt for the most stylish changing robe. There are plenty of designs to choose from, but we’ve done the groundwork to hone in on the best change robes for 2023 and we’ve rounded them up in the GQ edit below. To make things a little easier, we’ve highlighted some of our favourites here:What to look for when choosing a changing robe: The best change robes rock body-warming and waterproof materials that are sustainably sourced. Look out for these design details when finding your perfect fit: Poncho or parka style: Do you want to be able to take your change robe on and off just as you would a coat? Or perhaps you prefer a poncho towel that you can throw over your head and forget about? There are designs to suit both. Look for stretch side panels or those that open completely to make it easier for you to change your clothing while wearing one. Sleeve length: Think about when you plan to use your change robe the most as this will help you choose the style you opt for. If you solely want to use it on the beach – in both summer and winter – short sleeves may appeal more. If you want to stay your warmest on winter open water swims, long sleeves may be a better solution. If you opt for a long sleeve change robe, look for adjustable cuffs that give you that extra bit of protection when the elements hit. Size: When trying out the latest change robes we noticed that the sizes were very generous so bear this in mind when choosing your ideal fit. Some brands only offer one-size-fits-all designs, but if there is a choice, check the dimensions carefully and don’t necessarily opt for the size you’d normally choose for a standard jacket or towelling robe. If you’re normally a size large you may be surprised to find that a medium looks and feels better. Large pockets: Be it for a hot water bottle, a water bottle , keys, snacks, wallet, dry bag or phone, many of the designs come with both interior and exterior pockets. Some designs have pockets that include a hole to feed your headphone wire through, which can come in handy if you don’t have AirPods and want to listen to your tunes on the go. Waterproof qualities: The best change robes are both waterproof and windproof to protect you from the elements and come with soft and warm linings. Look for ‘moisture-wicking linings’ that will not only feel good on the skin but will keep you as dry as possible after you emerge from the water, conch shell in hand. For drier and warmer climates, surf ponchos cam also be a good choice: these are made of towelling and are designed to get you dry but don't repel water from the outside. Shop GQ’s pick of the best changing robes in 2023 below… 1/18 Red Paddle Evo Robe Size options: Small, medium and large Colourways: Seven, shown here in Parker Green With a material, cut and finish that will keep you looking suitably sharp on dry land. Red's Paddle Evo comes in a range of colourways including the brooding Parker Green finish with a vibrant orange interior lining. With a toggled hood, long adjustable-cuff sleeves and a five-popper wind baffle to keep out the elements, the attention to detail feels luxurious. It comes with convenient stretch side panels that give you plenty of room to wriggle around inside when changing, plus a YKK two-way open-ended zip makes it easy to fasten the coat when you can’t feel your cold, wet fingers. £159.95. At red-equipment.co.uk Shop Now 2/18 Vivida All-Weather Puffer Size options: Small to extra large Colourways: Three including Aventurine Green, Fossil Grey and Mineral Blue Vivida’s All-Weather Puffer changing robe is unlike most change robes on the market as it has an insulated fill style. Its exterior is made from water-repellent fabric, while the inside is a soft brushed fabric lined with sustainable honeycomb fleece. We think it’s one of the few designs that transition well for use on outdoor adventures by the coast and into the city. There are two generous external zipped hand-warmers and two external deep patch pockets with Velcro closure as well as an internal zipped pocket for valuables such as your keys and phone. The large internal stash pocket also has a bungee clip for the pack-away bag and once you’ve stored the coat inside you can conveniently use it as a pillow when camping. £240. At vividialifestyle.com Shop Now 3/18 dryrobe Advance Long Sleeve Size options: Small to extra large Colourways: 13, shown here in Black Grey Well known as pioneers in the change robe space, Dryrobe provides one of the most generously sized change robes we’ve tried. Deliberately roomy so there’s plenty of space to get changed while wearing it, this is a durable piece of kit. The soft lambswool lining is made from recycled polyester and has deep, fleece-lined external zip pockets. There’s also a particularly large A4 size internal ‘poacher’ pocket that’s great for a water bottle, while the internal waterproof zip pocket is just the right size for a phone or wallet. While the tailored sleeves come up a little shorter than a standard coat, this keeps your hands free, and the hook and loop fasteners at the wrists can be adjusted to keep out the elements in unsettled weather. £160. At dryrobe.com Shop Now 4/18 Föhn Size options: Medium and large Colourways: One, Khaki Another entry into the race for the best-looking changing robe of all, Föhn’s distinctly beautiful piece comes in classic parka khaki with gorgeous, cream-coloured Sherpa fleece lining. As you’d expect, it’s windproof and water-resistant, with the added benefit of hand warmer pockets and zipped compartments for electricals and underwear. If you don’t want to abandon your aesthetic just because you’re in swim mode, this is the drip to catch those drips. £95. At wiggle.com Shop Now Most Popular Culture The Idol just gave us the worst sex scene in history By Lucy Ford Fashion Once again, Tom Cruise invokes the awesome power of a muscle-padding polo shirt By Zak Maoui Fashion The 21 outfits that made Succession By Eileen Cartter 5/18 Quiksilver Surf Poncho Size Options: One size Colourways: Five, including black and Hawaiian print You may remember Quiksilver from the days during the early aughts when surfwear — like skate brands — was in its renaissance. Of course, these labels have continued to serve surfers and skaters, with this towelled surf poncho acting as a long-time collection staple. While a black colourway is available, the more psychedelic ‘Beach Glass’ and Hawaiian prints reflect the casual fun of the brand’s origins. Though hooded, this choice is reflective of other surf ponchos and is made of towelling both within and without. A choice for warmer climes only. £50. At quiksilver.co.uk Shop Now 6/18 Zone3 Size options: Small to extra large Colourways: Black A simple contribution that comes in at under £100 and is particularly primed for triathletes, Zone3’s changing robe somewhat resembles a parka with its pull toggle adjustable hood and knee length cut. As well as being water and windproof, this changing robe goes the extra mile by wicking sweat away: ideal for when you’ve just blitzed your swim stage PB. £99 £49.99. At wiggle.com Shop Now 7/18 Mystic Surf Poncho Size Options: One Size Colourways: One, sea salt green One of the more loungewear -inspired pieces on our list, Mystic’s changing poncho is made from teddy fleece and designed in stand-out sea salt green. Another pick for drier and/or warmer days, the Mystic changing robe takes cues from our favourite hoodies to deliver a fuzzy and comforting finishing product: the perfect excuse to wear your comfiest loungewear out on your seafaring adventures. £54.95. At westuitcentre.co.uk Shop Now Most Popular Culture The Idol just gave us the worst sex scene in history By Lucy Ford Fashion Once again, Tom Cruise invokes the awesome power of a muscle-padding polo shirt By Zak Maoui Fashion The 21 outfits that made Succession By Eileen Cartter 8/18 Brakeburn Chinook Robe Size Options: S-M, L-XL Colourways: Two, including black and camo Brakeburn’s changing robe is another example of style finding its way into this open-water staple. Coming in classic black and camouflage — a surprisingly popular option when it comes to change robes — this example ticks all the boxes contributing to its form and function. Hooded and borg-lined, this is one of the heavier-duty robes designed to zip up over several other layers once you’ve changed out of your cold swimming kit. Waterproof and with deep pockets that are spacious enough to replace your gym bag , the Brakeburn robe has been designed with cold water swimming in mind. Adjustable velcro sleeves let you seal up against the chill, while extra-large zip pulls have been designed for cold, fumbling hands. £139.99 £70. At brakeburn.com Shop Now 9/18 Dhb Size options: Medium and large Colourways: Two, Black and Atlantic Deep Another triathlon-optimised cycling brand that has wetsuits as well as jerseys on lock, Dhb’s foray into changing robes has resulted in this highly efficient and utilitarian top layer. Sherpa-lined and resistant to water and wind’s cold grasp, fresh and saltwater is no match for the zip on this Hydron robe, making sure rust and water damage are avoided at all costs. £100 £70. At wiggle.com Shop Now 10/18 Oksun Size Options: One size Colourways: Black, Blue, Red Waterproof pockets are one of the most essential selling points of this beach-ready change robe, crafted by waterproof and fleecing expert Oksun. In red, blue, orange and black, there’s a little more choice of colour than you ordinarily find in the category, and elsewhere you’ll discover a wind and waterproof outer and a cosy inner that’ll make changing out in the elements as pleasant as it’s possible for it to be. £75.99. At amazon.co.uk Shop Now Most Popular Culture The Idol just gave us the worst sex scene in history By Lucy Ford Fashion Once again, Tom Cruise invokes the awesome power of a muscle-padding polo shirt By Zak Maoui Fashion The 21 outfits that made Succession By Eileen Cartter 11/18 Sundried Size Options: S, M, L Colourways : Black/Red Sundried might sound like a faraway dream reserved for those living in warmer climes, but at least we can have the next best thing here in the UK thanks to the Sundried robe. Sun or not, this large option will shield you from post-swim rain and wind, keep your fresh clothes dry in its cavernous pockets and even offer a dash of Gothic romance thanks to peeks of red fleecing against its black outer shell. £100 £91. At amazon.co.uk Shop Now 12/18 Rip Curl Wet As Hooded Towel Size options: One size Colourways: Two including navy and grey Any surfer worth his sea salt will be familiar with Rip Curl. From board shorts to wetsuits, the brand is one of the most recognisable in the watersports game, and true to form, its hooded ponchos have proven staples. The simple, oversized change robes offer copious space to change from casualwear to beachwear without a fumble, while the 300g terry cloth quickly absorbs water and offers a soft touch for when you come in from the ocean. As a bonus, the large pouch pocket means you can stow other essentials like sunglasses, dry bag, keys, wallet phone et al. £39.99. At amazon.co.uk Shop Now 13/18 Passenger Escapism Changing Robe Size options: Extra small through to extra large Colourways: Three including Larkspur Blue, Black and Rust The Escapism is sustainably made from 100 per cent recycled single-use plastic bottles and, for every order, Passenger also plants a tree, adding to the feel-good touch when you click to buy. The PFC-Free water-resistant coating will bounce away water droplets, while it includes adjustable velcro on the cuffs, a two-way zip and side slits to make it easy to change clothes. What’s particularly attractive about this design is how lightweight it feels. It also includes a soft and inviting cream, Sherpa fleece lining that looks good contrasted with the bold block of colour on the exterior. While the ‘Passenger made to roam’ screen print logo on the front and back is rather large, we think it seamlessly blends into the design. £119.95. At passenger-clothing.com Shop Now Most Popular Culture The Idol just gave us the worst sex scene in history By Lucy Ford Fashion Once again, Tom Cruise invokes the awesome power of a muscle-padding polo shirt By Zak Maoui Fashion The 21 outfits that made Succession By Eileen Cartter 14/18 Voited Size options: Extra small to extra large Colourways: Seven, shown here in Blue Steel Christened a Drycoat in addition to its status as a changing robe, Voited’s contribution comes with everything you could want or need from an outdoor changing room. Insulated, water and windproof, its lightweight ripstop design gives over plenty of room for pockets: perfect if you’re going for a quick dip and don’t want to take anything but the essentials with you. Crucial to our standards, this second edition piece also comes in several colourways meaning it needn’t look as plain as the wetsuit you just stripped out of. £129. voited.co.uk Shop Now 15/18 Mi Adventure Size Options: S-M or One size Colourways: Black, Pink, Red, Blue Amazon is alight with changing robe options, but this design from Mi Adventure stands out from the pack. Neutral black and waterproof to the outside, the design quirks emerge from colourful fleeced linings. Zipped pockets, a zipped front and a capacious hood finish off the picture of what is a marvellous changing robe option. £109. At amazon.co.uk Shop Now 16/18 Seashell Size Options: XS-S, S-M, M-L, L-XL Colourways: Sand, Black, Ocean A rare robe that places emphasis on its logo, Seashell’s design is understated enough to get away with it. A subtle spiral shell design dominates the back of this pick which ticks all the boxes: large enough to change inside of, zipped and fleeced to keep out the cold and inclusive of a giant hood to stave off the drizzle. From £139.99. At amazon.co.uk Shop Now Most Popular Culture The Idol just gave us the worst sex scene in history By Lucy Ford Fashion Once again, Tom Cruise invokes the awesome power of a muscle-padding polo shirt By Zak Maoui Fashion The 21 outfits that made Succession By Eileen Cartter 17/18 Gorilla Robes ECO Changing Robe Size options: Extra small through to extra large Colourways: Blue or black Gorilla Robes sells a long-sleeve poncho design ECO Recycled Waterproof Dry Changing Robe, which makes a change from the standard zip-up designs you can find online. Simply pop it over your head after your swim to get the benefits of the thick and warm Sherpa fleece lining inside. You can also feel good knowing the robe is made from 100 per cent recycled materials, with each robe made up of up to 80 plastic bottles. It also comes in four sizes to match your frame – from extra small up to extra large, which is suitable for builds up to 5ft 10 and up. The robe also has a double-side zip that makes it easy for you to get changed and also access your existing clothes with ease. £69.95. At amazon.co.uk Shop Now 18/18 Cosimac Dry Robe Size options: Small to extra large Colourways: Harbour Blue, Ocean Ice Blue, Marine Red Cosimac's long-sleeved change robe is waterproof and weatherproof and comes with one of the cosiest fleece linings we’ve tried. The huge, fleece-lined hood also adds to the luxurious finish of this quality design. It has a surprisingly lightweight feel considering how tough and protective its outer shell is, which is designed to shield you from the wind and rain while keeping you warm and protected. The full-length two-way zip and zip tags make the robe easy to get in and out of, while the inside zipped pockets and two external zipped pockets will keep all your belongings suitably stored and protected. Its spacious design is noticeably longer than your standard change robe and it also puffs out nicely to make it easy for you to get changed discreetly inside. If you’re feeling fierce in the fashion stakes, also check out the leopard print Cosimac change robe, which will have heads turning all over the coastline. £135 £68. At cosimac.com Shop Now NOW READ: The best suitcases and travel bags for stylish storage on the go The best tents for the perfect UK camping trip The best swim shorts for the summer of '22 Keywords Fashion GQ Recommends Coats Fitness Buyers Guide Read More Fashion Meet the future of British fashion: the BFC/GQ Designer Fashion Fund shortlist is here All the entries have been whittled down, and the final winner will be announced on 9 June By Zak Maoui Fitness The best stand-up paddle boards to float into next summer As we keenly anticipate the summer of 2023, inflatable stand-up paddle boards will be congesting waterways home and away once more. Use GQ’s buying guide to the water sports trend that blew up in the pandemic to ensure you’re not iSUP-ing without a paddle By Jessie Atkinson Fashion The hot summer capsule wardrobe for men who wanna look, well… hot 'Tis the season to be vibey with these 20 essentials By Murray Clark Fashion The best jeans for men, from skinny fit to wide leg GQ’s pick of the best jeans for men to form the foundation of your everyday look. Those dark indigo selvedge jeans hanging in your wardrobe are superb, but there’s a whole new wave of denim out there By Heidi Quill Fashion The romance of a junked, second hand baseball cap The greatest menswear love story never told should always star a cast-off cap By Murray Clark Fashion The best finds from the men’s fashion sales this week It takes a seasoned shopper to effectively navigate the men’s sales racks. Here’s what’s in GQ’s basket By Heidi Quill Fashion The best grey suits for men that all mean serious business From Reiss to Brunello Cucinelli, GQ picks the best grey suits for men. Invest in the perfect grey suit and you'll clock plenty more hours in it than the nine-to-five grind. By Heidi Quill Fashion Jurassic Park is still a safari-style masterpiece – even 30 years later As Jurassic Park turns 30, we revisit the classic looks of Sam Neil, Jeff Goldblum and more. By Jessie Atkinson See More Stories Fashion Grooming Culture Watches Recommends Lifestyle GQ Sports Fitness Black Friday Condé Nast Britain CN Traveller Glamour House & Garden Johansens Tatler Vanity Fair Vogue Wired World of Interiors Privacy Policy & Cookie statement Code of conduct Terms & Conditions Contact Editorial Complaints Policy Careers Newsletter Subscribe Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast Select international site Britain Australia Brasil China España France Germany India Italia Japan Korea México Middle East Portugal South Africa Taiwan Thailand Türkiye United States