Learn 2x faster for free with Seneca Join 10 million students using Seneca as the funnest way to learn at KS2, KS3, GCSE & A Level. And it's free! Students, use for free Teachers, use for free Parents, use for free Questions Answered Proven to make you learn 2x faster Our smart learning algorithms are proven to make you remember topics better . If you get a question wrong, we’ll show you the content again but in a different format. We’ll even do it at a time when it’s optimal for you to learn it. We’ve also hand-selected the best GIFs and memes on the internet so revision makes you laugh instead of stressed. Get started free The fastest growing homework & revision platform in the UK Pick from 1000+ KS2, KS3, GCSE & A Level courses based on exam board specifications . We’ve condensed the content to what you actually need to know for your exams. Your teacher can also create classes and set homework for any revision topic on the study platform creating the perfect lesson plan. Find a course What people say... Previous Gina Bayley Parent Using Seneca Learning helped improve my sons grades we are so pleased with his results Dalvir Grewal Teacher These guys are amazing. My pupils loved it and they did really well! Sarah Goulty Teacher I've just found this wonderful resource. My FE learners reluctantly retaking Maths and English GCSEs have achieved so much more than usual today. Thank you! Jaqui Lethaby Parent Your science materials took my son from a grade 4 & 3, to two 5s! It was the only revision approach he could stomach and thank you for making it freely available. Kyle Graham Teacher Guarantee there will be students up and down the country who are at least a grade higher thanks to this lot. If your students don't use Seneca Learning, get them on it in September! Tracie Teacher Recently signed my yr11s up and have started setting assignments as homework. Today a student I have taught since yr7 has done his first piece of homework EVER!!! Wish I'd discovered this wonderful resource earlier! Oscar Student Just wanted to say cheers for everything - went from 7s to 9s in my sciences using the website Michelle Student Thanks so much for releasing this revision tool. My whole life I have failed maths exams and have never passed a single one. I used seneca for a few months and I pass my gcse exam for it. THANK YOU Singing Scientist Teacher Evidence-it works! One student completed 148 hours on Seneca. Was predicted 5s. Achieved 9/8/8 in Sciences. Never needed convincing of the power/impact of the website. One awesome tool. Can't wait for A level and KS3 to be launched. Cosimo Student Hi Seneca. I just wanted to say a huge thanks to everyone. Thanks to you guys I have achieved 8/9 in every subject so thank you. ❤️ Ryn Bdham Teacher This platform was universally liked by my students. It provided an easy way of revising a range of subjects. By easy I mean all the information was in one place. Students who hadn't before found a way to revise started to use this. Thoroughly recommended. Hannah Cable Student It gave me a way to revise easily without having to stare at a book. It also was really good as it gave the information needed, then gave a few questions with the answers and had a kind of reward as it did the countries so is more interactive than the other site that I tried Gina Bayley Parent Using Seneca Learning helped improve my sons grades we are so pleased with his results Dalvir Grewal Teacher These guys are amazing. My pupils loved it and they did really well! Sarah Goulty Teacher I've just found this wonderful resource. My FE learners reluctantly retaking Maths and English GCSEs have achieved so much more than usual today. Thank you! Jaqui Lethaby Parent Your science materials took my son from a grade 4 & 3, to two 5s! It was the only revision approach he could stomach and thank you for making it freely available. Kyle Graham Teacher Guarantee there will be students up and down the country who are at least a grade higher thanks to this lot. If your students don't use Seneca Learning, get them on it in September! Tracie Teacher Recently signed my yr11s up and have started setting assignments as homework. Today a student I have taught since yr7 has done his first piece of homework EVER!!! Wish I'd discovered this wonderful resource earlier! Oscar Student Just wanted to say cheers for everything - went from 7s to 9s in my sciences using the website Michelle Student Thanks so much for releasing this revision tool. My whole life I have failed maths exams and have never passed a single one. I used seneca for a few months and I pass my gcse exam for it. THANK YOU Singing Scientist Teacher Evidence-it works! One student completed 148 hours on Seneca. Was predicted 5s. Achieved 9/8/8 in Sciences. Never needed convincing of the power/impact of the website. One awesome tool. Can't wait for A level and KS3 to be launched. Cosimo Student Hi Seneca. I just wanted to say a huge thanks to everyone. Thanks to you guys I have achieved 8/9 in every subject so thank you. ❤️ Ryn Bdham Teacher This platform was universally liked by my students. It provided an easy way of revising a range of subjects. By easy I mean all the information was in one place. Students who hadn't before found a way to revise started to use this. Thoroughly recommended. Hannah Cable Student It gave me a way to revise easily without having to stare at a book. It also was really good as it gave the information needed, then gave a few questions with the answers and had a kind of reward as it did the countries so is more interactive than the other site that I tried Gina Bayley Parent Using Seneca Learning helped improve my sons grades we are so pleased with his results Dalvir Grewal Teacher These guys are amazing. My pupils loved it and they did really well! Sarah Goulty Teacher I've just found this wonderful resource. My FE learners reluctantly retaking Maths and English GCSEs have achieved so much more than usual today. Thank you! Next 1 2 3 4 Seneca Teachers Parents Students Your school Join class Get mobile app Evidence Seneca works Resources Blog Free CPD courses Definitions Vocab Certified teaching resources Mental health & wellbeing Find tutors Become a tutor Legal Terms Privacy GDPR Cookies Contact us learnmore@seneca.io Instagram Facebook Youtube Twitter Pinterest Help & FAQs Press kit A Level Courses A Level Biology Revision A Level Business Revision A Level Chemistry Revision A Level Physics Revision A Level Economics Revision A Level English Language Revision A Level English Literature Revision A Level Geography Revision A Level History Revision A Level Political Studies Revision A Level Psychology Revision A Level Sociology Revision GCSE Courses GCSE Biology Revision GCSE Business Revision GCSE Chemistry Revision GCSE Combined Science Revision GCSE Computer Science Revision GCSE Design Technology Revision GCSE English Language Revision GCSE English Literature Revision GCSE Food Preparation & Nutrition Revision GCSE French Revision GCSE Geography Revision GCSE German Revision GCSE History Revision GCSE Maths Revision GCSE Media Studies Revision GCSE Music Revision GCSE Physical Education Revision GCSE Physics Revision GCSE Religious Studies Revision GCSE Sociology Revision GCSE Spanish Revision KS3 Courses KS3 English Revision KS3 French Revision KS3 Spanish Revision KS3 Geography Revision KS3 History Revision KS3 Maths Revision KS3 Science Revision KS2 Courses KS2 Computing KS2 English KS2 French KS2 Geography KS2 History KS2 Maths KS2 Science Join class Login Sign up Join class Login Sign up Choose your region UK Brasil USA México Österreich