Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 43 1 43 1 Insch, Burnside Road, Whitecraigs See map Offers Over £1,400,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Added on 22/08/2022 PROPERTY TYPE Detached Villa BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×5 TENURE Ask agent Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 1 Property description An impressive detached residence, set within generous and private landscaped gardens, in close proximity to Whitecraigs Tennis and Golf Clubs, popular East Renfrewshire Schools and Whitecraigs Train Station. Insch is an executive detached villa, offering the scale and size of a more traditional home yet affords all the benefits of a modern home. This contemporary home has been thoughtfully planned internally with high ceilings, generous living spaces, enhancing the feeling of space and natural light. The front elevation of the property belies the spacious and versatile contemporary accommodation formed over a three-storey layout extending to around 4,193 Sqft (389 Sqm) including the garage, finished to a high specification and finish. The floor plans and photographs will provide a summary of the accommodation and early viewing is advised. The accommodation comprises: Ground Floor: Entrance vestibule. A bright and welcoming reception hall with contemporary staircase affording access to upper and lower ground floor. Generous and well presented drawing room with feature stone fireplace and French doors opening to terrace and rear garden. Formal dining room overlooking the front of the property. Family room. Stunning and particularly spacious bespoke dining kitchen. The kitchen is equipped with large island, complementary worktops and integrated appliances. Adjacent to the kitchen there is an open plan dining area and a generous, glazed sun lounge with fireplace, leading to the terrace and landscaped gardens. First Floor: The principal bedroom suite is particularly generous in size and has lovely views over the gardens and gives access to the luxurious ensuite shower room with TV and separate bespoke fitted dressing room. Bedroom two with dressing area and ensuite shower room. Bedroom three with ensuite shower room and fitted wardrobes. Bedroom four is currently used as a dressing room and has fitted wardrobes. Bedroom five/ home office. Stunning house bathroom, with custom built bath and walk in shower enclosure. Lower Ground Floor: Lower hallway with utility room, boiler room, plant room and wine cellar. There is studio/gym with French doors providing access to gardens and terrace. Spa area with steam room and sauna, overlooking the gardens, walk in shower enclosure and separate WC. Internal courtesy door to garage. Good storage throughout the lower ground level. Insch is set back from Burnside Road and behind custom automatic security gate and a pedestrian gate, with remote control access, leading to an extensive illuminated monobloc driveway with ample space for several cars. There is an integral double garage with electronically operated door and internal courtesy door. A particular feature of this lovely home are the landscaped garden grounds which are enclosed and provide privacy and seclusion. The gardens boast an expansive lawn to the rear, seasonally colourful with well stocked borders. An extensive paved terrace, incorporating a hot tub, runs along the rear elevation of the house and is ideal for entertaining. The property is further complimented by a high specification and includes a high efficiency gas central heating and underfloor heating systems, bespoke fitted furniture, high quality double glazing, intelligent wiring, and an integrated music system throughout the property. The property is protected by CCTV and a security alarm system. Burnside Road is a street lined with substantial houses set within generous and established gardens and in recent years Higher Whitecraigs has become one of Glasgow's premier residential addresses. Whitecraigs and its neighbouring suburbs of Newton Mearns and Giffnock are acknowledged for their standard of local amenities and provide a selection of local shops, supermarkets, restaurants, regular bus and rail services to Glasgow City Centre, banks, library and health care facilities. The property is conveniently located for access to The Avenue Shopping Centre, Waitrose, Aldi and Tesco at Greenlaw Village Retail Park and is only a short walk to Whitecraigs Train Station. This popular suburb is located approximately 9 miles to the South of Glasgow's City Centre and is conveniently situated for commuter access to nearby M77/M8 & Glasgow Southern Orbital. Sports and recreational facilities can be found locally to include Parklands Country Club, East Renfrewshire, Cathcart and Whitecraigs Golf Clubs, Whitecraigs Tennis Club, Eastwood Theatre and Rouken Glen Park, voted Best Park in the UK 2016, as well as East Renfrewshire Council's own excellent sports and leisure facilities at Eastwood Toll. For those with young families, the property sits within the catchment area for some of Scotland's highest attaining primary and secondary schools, including Mearns Castle and St. Ninian's High Schools. The property is located approximately 0.5 miles from the private Belmont House School and within easy reach of various pick up points for Glasgow's other private schools. EPC: Band C. The home report can be viewed and downloaded from the Onesurvey website: Please follow the instructions. Viewing Advised Brochures Brochure 1 Web Details Read more Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent Insch, Burnside Road, Whitecraigs Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Whitecraigs Station 0.5 miles Williamwood Station 0.8 miles Clarkston Station 1.1 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Nicol Estate Agents, Newton Mearns 46 Ayr Road Newton Mearns Glasgow G46 6SA Welcome to Nicol Estate Agents. At Nicol Estate Agents we believe that our people and our experience sells homes and that our personal approach achieves results. Our aim is simple: Whatever your reason for moving; whether it's for extra space, to downsize or you may simply have found your dream home, Nicol Estate Agents can help. With over 100 years' combined experience, an extensive qualified database of home buyers, proactive marketing and a proven track Read more More properties from this agent Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Nicol Estate Agents, Newton Mearns 46 Ayr Road Newton Mearns Glasgow G46 6SA More properties from this agent Call agent : 0141 673 5874 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference 88830. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Nicol Estate Agents, Newton Mearns . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0141 673 5874 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho