Skip to content ! It appears that Javascript is disabled on your browser. We're sorry, some parts of the Rightmove website don't work at their best without JavaScript enabled. Please ensure your JavaScript is turned on to make sure you have the best experience. Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Where can I live Property valuation Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live House Prices Sold house prices Property valuation Price comparison report Market trends Find Agent Find estate agents Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise commercial property Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Country guides Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell overseas property Sign in My Rightmove Sign in My Rightmove Buy Property for sale New homes for sale Property valuation Where can I live Investors Mortgages Rent Property to rent Student property to rent Where can I live Find Agent Find estate agents House prices Sold house prices Commercial Commercial property to rent Commercial property for sale Advertise Inspire Moving stories Property blog View our latest campaign Property guides Housing trends Overseas blog Overseas All countries Spain France Portugal Italy Greece Currency Sell Overseas property Sign in or create an account to save your favourite properties or searches here 34 1 34 1 Murrayfield, Edinburgh, Midlothian See map Offers in Excess of £2,450,000 Knowing the purchase price means you can work out the total cost of buying the property. Read more about property price in our glossary page. Monthly mortgage payments Reduced on 07/11/2022 PROPERTY TYPE Semi-Detached BEDROOMS ×5 BATHROOMS ×6 SIZE 5,587 sq. ft. (519 sq. m.) TENURE Freehold Describes how you own a property. There are different types of tenure - freehold, leasehold, and commonhold. Read more about tenure in our glossary page. 2 Key features Featured Property Property description ** OPEN VIEWING SATURDAY 17th AND SUNDAY 18th JUNE - come and see what the Torwood development has to offer ** AMA Homes brings to the market this magnificent Victorian five bedroom semi-detached house in the sought after Murrayfield Area. Tor House is a magnificent Victorian villa, modelled in a Neo-Jacobean style, which lies in the prestigious Edinburgh suburb of Murrayfield. AMA Homes has sympathetically restored and converted the house into two substantial family homes: Tor House East and Tor House West. Repair and Prepare is an approach that AMA take to all its period conversions. This involves conserving, consolidating and restoring the original fabric of the building, but with 21st century materials, methods and understanding. The result, as can be seen today at Tor, are homes that respect and protect original features, are energy efficient and, most importantly, respond to how people want to live today. To allow the original features to shine, a lightness of touch was adopted for the interiors. A common colour palette runs throughout the house, and consistent flooring - Amtico woodeffect tiles in the formal public rooms, porcelain tiles in kitchen/diner and bathrooms, and pale grey carpets upstairs - ensure there is an effortless flow to the spaces. Fitted wardrobes provide ample storage in the bedrooms, while the bathrooms and en suites are beautifully detailed, offering just the righter of luxury. Overall, the exacting attention to detail in the modern additions perfectly echoes the work of the original craftsmen, creating homes where the old and the new coexist in perfect harmony. Ground Floor The Lobby A superb wood-panelled entrance with fine carved details and an ornate leaded glass window above the inner doors. Overlooked by a first floor gallery, the double-height ceiling features ornate plasterwork. The Hall The hall is dominated by the magnificent stained glass window, which provides a dramatic backdrop to the beautifully carved wooden staircase. A feature gas fire basket has been added to the original fireplace. The Living Room Accessed from the lobby, the majestic formal living room has views out over the front garden from the striking south-facing windows. The original wood panelling and ornate plaster ceiling have been fully restored, and a gas fire has been installed into the feature fireplace. Amtico flooring has been laid in a herringbone pattern. The Guest Suite/Bedroom 5/Home Office Undoubtedly the most striking of the original rooms, the space lends itself to a variety of uses and with its own en suite would make the perfect ‘Granny Flat’. Featuring beautiful timber features, including built-in display cabinets and ornate mantlepiece, it’s the listed wallpaper which catches the eye. This rare example of ‘Tynecastle Canvas’ from the late Victorian era, features embossed linen mounted on canvas and was designed to imitate 18th century Spanish examples. Downstairs Shower Room A second door off the living room leads into the corridor from the hall to the guest suite, which also provides access to the spacious, tiled, downstairs shower room. The Kitchen/Diner Accessed from the main hall, the kitchen/diner is the heart of the house and perfectly suited to modern family life. The kitchen features bespoke fitted cabinets around a central, marble-topped island unit/breakfast bar. There is a wide range of built-in Siemens appliances, including a coffee maker and large wine fridge. The dining area looks out over the private rear garden through glazed doors, which fold back to provide access to the substantial patio area. The floor is laid with large, marble-effect porcelain tiles, which continue seamlessly through into the snug. The Snug The cosy snug, located just off the dining area, is the perfect TV room, with ample sockets and connection points and windows looking out over the rear garden. The Utility Room Good sized utility room, accessed from the kitchen, and featuring a Siemens washing machine and a tumble dryer, as well as a sink and range of units. The Double Garage Spacious double garage, with an automatic door operated remotely by a key fob. Internal access is off the kitchen. The Stairs and Gallery The impressive stairs give you the perfect viewing points to enjoy all the intricate details of the stained-glass window. At the top, the gallery allows you to look down over the lobby and admire the intricate carving from a different angle. First floor The Master Bedroom This bright room features a south-facing bay window offering views across Murrayfield Stadium to the city and over to the Pentland Hills. Open plan to the master bedroom but with its own window providing natural light, the dressing room provides two walls of fitted wardrobes. The Master En Suite An exquisitely-detailed en suite, just made for pampering. Large format ceramic tiles, a stylish walk-in shower, twin designer basins and a luxurious freestanding bath create the perfect oasis. Bedroom 2 Spacious bedroom with an en-suite shower room and walk in fitted wardrobe. Two south-facing windows offer views across towards the Pentlands Bedroom 3 A bright double bedroom with en-suite facilities and fitted wardrobes. Views over the back garden through glazed double doors. Bedroom 4 A double bedroom with lovely en-suite facilities and fitted wardrobes. The Rear Garden This peaceful, landscaped space offers a large patio area, accessed from the kitchen/diner, and a mix of borders and lawn. A range of trees and shrubs have already been planted, but it awaits the new owner to put their stamp on the garden. History of Tor House It is believed the house dates back to the early 1850s and was built for James Craig, one of the entrepreneurs behind the Craig & Rose paint company. Founded in 1829, the company was renowned for the quality of its products, gaining many prestigious contracts including developing the iconic red oxide paint for the Forth Bridge. By 1896, as evidenced by the monogram on the stained glass window which overlooks the stairs, the property was in the hands of a new owner, John Ainslie. He set about remodelling and extending the house, introducing many of the fine details still visible today. During the Second World War, Tor House was used by the RAF as headquarters for No 34 Balloon Command, coordinating the barrage balloon squadrons which played a vital role in defending key targets from German bombers. Following the war, the RAF converted the house into a convalescent home, which was continued by the Salvation Army through into the 1960s. In 1970 it was bought by the Lothian Baptist Housing Association and operated as the Tor Nursing Home. Over the subsequent decades, rooms were subdivided to make individual rooms with bathrooms, and extensions were added to increase the capacity. It is fortunate, however, that the main formal rooms were left largely untouched during this time, meaning we can still enjoy the finer details of John Ainslie’s grand remodelling scheme. Read more Energy Performance Certificates A document confirming the energy efficiency rating of the property. Read more about epc in our glossary page. Energy Efficiency Environment Impact Council Tax A payment made to your local authority in order to pay for local services like schools, libraries, and refuse collection. The amount you pay depends on the value of the property. Read more about council tax in our glossary page. Ask agent Murrayfield, Edinburgh, Midlothian Open map Street View Stations Schools NEAREST STATIONS Distances are straight line measurements from the centre of the postcode Haymarket Station 0.9 miles Slateford Station 1.3 miles Kingsknowe Station 2.1 miles Check how much you can borrow Get a Mortgage in Principle You'll have a personalised result in just 20 minutes and you could get viewings faster when you find the home you want, with no impact on your credit score. Broadband speed Working with With Property sale history Recently sold & under offer See similar nearby properties About the agent Murray & Currie, Edinburgh 60 Queen Street Edinburgh EH2 4NA Looking to sell or let, talk to the experts Welcome to Murray & Currie Property With a head office right in the heart of Edinburgh's bustling city centre at 60 Queen Street and a dedicated team of property professionals, very few firms are better located or equipped to sell or rent residential property in central Scotland, Aberdeen and London. We have over 1000 properties under management at any one time and some of the Scotland's most prestigious houses, flats and develop Read more More properties from this agent Industry affiliations Notes These notes are private, only you can see them. Save note MARKETED BY Murray & Currie, Edinburgh 60 Queen Street Edinburgh EH2 4NA More properties from this agent Call agent : 0131 381 4355 Request details Spotted an error with this listing? Staying secure when looking for property Ensure you're up to date with our latest advice on how to avoid fraud or scams when looking for property online. Visit our security centre to find out more Spotted an error with this listing? Disclaimer - Property reference sale-207. The information displayed about this property comprises a property advertisement. Rightmove.co.uk makes no warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of the advertisement or any linked or associated information, and Rightmove has no control over the content. This property advertisement does not constitute property particulars. The information is provided and maintained by Murray & Currie, Edinburgh . Please contact the selling agent or developer directly to obtain any information which may be available under the terms of The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 or the Home Report if in relation to a residential property in Scotland. * This is the average speed from the provider with the fastest broadband package available on comparethemarket.com at this postcode. The average speed displayed is based on the download speeds of at least 50% of customers at peak time (8pm to 10pm). Fibre/cable services at the postcode are subject to availability and may differ between properties within a postcode. Speeds can be affected by a range of technical and environmental factors. The speed at the property may be lower than that listed above. You can check the estimated speed and confirm availability to a property prior to purchasing on the broadband provider's website. Providers may increase charges. The information is provided and maintained by Stickee Technology Limited . Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors. Your search history You have no recent searches. Email agent Call agent Call agent : 0131 381 4355 Email agent Rightmove Search for sale Search for rent Commercial for sale Commercial to rent Search sold prices Sign in / Create account Blog Tech blog Resources Where can I live? Stamp duty Students Removals Property guides House price index Help to buy Buy to let investors Quick links Cheap flats to rent Property investment Cheap houses for sale Overseas Find an agent Commercial Property to Let Commercial Property for Sale Rightmove PLC About Press Centre Investor relations Contact us Careers Locations England Scotland Northern Ireland Wales London Spain France Portugal All Countries Major towns and cities Professional Rightmove Plus Data Services Advertise with us Overseas Agents and Developers Home and Property Related Services Advertise commercial property This site: Site map Help Cookies Safety and security Terms of Use Privacy Policy Major cities and towns in the UK: Select (A-Z) A-Be Bl-Bu Ca-Ce Ch-Con Cor-Cu D Ea Ed-F G H I-K L M-Ne No O-R Sc-So St-Sw T-V Wa-We Wi-Wr Y Major cities in the UK London Property London Property for Sale London Property to Rent Ba Be-Br C E-G Ha Hi-Ho I-K L-M N-R S-T W Popular regions in London Houses for sale in B11 Houses for sale in B9 Houses for sale in HU8 Houses for sale in BL1 Houses for sale in HU7 Houses for sale in SA4 Houses for sale in SA9 Houses for sale in S4 Houses for sale in SA5 Houses for sale in LS9 Houses to rent in BD3 Houses to rent in LE5 Houses to rent in BD5 Houses to rent in BD8 Houses to rent in LE4 Houses to rent in S20 Houses to rent in LS14 Houses to rent in ST6 Houses to rent in HU8 Houses to rent in HU6 Offices to Rent in Birmingham Offices to Rent in Bristol Offices to Rent in Glasgow Offices to Rent in Leeds Offices to Rent in Leicester Offices to Rent in London Offices to Rent in Manchester Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Offices to Rent in Nottingham Offices to Rent in Soho Serviced Offices to Rent in Birmingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Bristol Serviced Offices to Rent in Glasgow Serviced Offices to Rent in Leeds Serviced Offices to Rent in Leicester Serviced Offices to Rent in London Serviced Offices to Rent in Manchester Serviced Offices to Rent in Newcastle Upon Tyne Serviced Offices to Rent in Nottingham Serviced Offices to Rent in Soho